Read 2026-10-02: ABC https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-24/ai-agent-accessed-australian-government-site-pm-says/107189078 ; Guardian https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2026/sep/27/sam-altman-openai-dario-amodei-anthropic-senate-inquiry-medicare-hack-rogue-ai-agent-leak ; TechCrunch https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/29/openai-apologizes-to-australia-after-its-ai-agents-breached-government-sites/ ; TNW https://thenextweb.com/news/altman-amodei-skip-australia-senate-inquiry
OpenAI hacked Medicare portal, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says - ABC News
OpenAI hacked Medicare portal, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says
OpenAI hacked Medicare portal, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has revealed an AI agent hacked into an Australian Medicare data portal earlier this year.
Speaking in New York, Mr Albanese said the OpenAI agent gained unauthorised access to the Medicare statistics reporting service portal administered by Services Australia on June 18.
The AI agent accessed both public and non-public files, but Mr Albanese said it did not appear anyone's personal Medicare details were accessed.
Mr Albanese said he had a "frank" discussion with OpenAI's chief executive Sam Altman, saying the company took three months to notify the government of the breach and, when it did, the notification was in an email sent to the Services Australia public inbox.
"The notification was an email sent just to the public mailbox," Mr Albanese said.
OpenAI accessed non-public aggregate health statistics and internal files from an old Australian government website that carried Medicare statistics.
 A Medicare statistics reporting service portal, administered by Services Australia, is breached by an OpenAI agent
 Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and his office are informed of the incident, while Minister Gallagher holds several discussions with Mr Marles, Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke, Services Australia and the ASD
 Mr Albanese calls Mr Altman and informs the public of the breach
"The AI agent found a way around those blocks, didn't accept 'no' for an answer, if you like," Mr Albanese said.
The prime minister said Services Australia was not notified until September 10.
On September 15, Services Australia reported it to the Australian Signals Directorate's cybersecurity centre.
Last week, Services Australia got in touch with Katy Gallagher, the minister for the public service. Mr Albanese's office was notified over the weekend.
"[The] evidence currently available is there is no broader compromise to the Services Australia network. Nonetheless, this situation is obviously unacceptable," Mr Albanese said.
Mr Albanese announced a taskforce would be set up to provide an "urgent and immediate review" of the incident.
The prime minister was asked if Mr Altman apologised.
"Yes, he clearly … we can get into word games, but he clearly accepted that the company had not done good enough," Mr Albanese said.
Angus Taylor says Anthony Albanese should focus more on cyber defence.
Mr Albanese said the incident was complex and unprecedented.
Heads of OpenAI and Anthropic called to face Senate inquiry after rogue agent incidents | Australian politics | The Guardian
Sam Altman (left) and Dario Amodei have been called to face a Senate inquiry into AI by the Australian government.
Sam Altman (left) and Dario Amodei have been called to face a Senate inquiry into AI by the Australian government.
Heads of OpenAI and Anthropic called to face Senate inquiry after rogue agent incidents
Sam Altman and Dario Amodei have been invited to appear before the Greens-led inquiry into AI and datacentres
 have been called to face a Senate inquiry after rogue OpenAI agents hacked Australian and US government websites.
 were requested to appear at the Greens-led inquiry into AI and datacentres as their companies negotiate with the Labor government for greater access to Australian content in exchange for a greater local presence.
Anthony Albanese returned to Sydney on Saturday, where he challenged OpenAI to explain why there had been multiple breaches involving its agents, including the 
Albanese spoke to Altman on Wednesday (US time) before revealing the hack and said the CEO had offered “further discussions” on security.
The Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young, who is chair of the inquiry, said Altman needed to publicly answer questions about the Australian hack.
An inquiry grilling would risk embarrassment for the companies and the government after months of private negotiations to allow AI training on millions of global texts in Australia.
Albanese did not directly answer when asked earlier this week whether the incident had changed the government’s view on whether to partner with 
The party’s spokesperson for AI, David Shoebridge, was blocked from taking a seat on the government-led committee. The party has used its own inquiry to listen to community groups opposing datacentre construction and interrogate executives behind the developments.
 This article was amended on 27 September 2026 to remove a reference to the inquiry having the power to compel chief executives to appear. It cannot compel foreign citizens.
OpenAI apologizes to Australia after its AI agents breached government sites | TechCrunch
OpenAI apologizes to Australia after its AI agents breached government sites
OpenAI on Monday apologized to the Australian government for not immediately notifying the country’s administration that its agents had breached some public services websites. The company also detailed how some of those breaches happened and outlined additional measures it is taking to assess the impact of the events.
“In June, during internal training and evaluation our models accessed Australian government websites in ways they were not authorised to. We also should have handled our response better. We are sorry and working to do better in the future,” OpenAI wrote in a 
