https://www.cnbc.com/2026/10/01/spacex-to-launch-google-ai-chips-to-orbit-with-planet-labs-satellites.html | read 2026-10-02
 SpaceX launched Google AI chips to orbit with Planet Labs satellites Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Europe Markets China Markets Asia Markets World Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Europe Politics China Politics Asia Politics World Politics Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Top Video Live Audio Europe TV Asia TV CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech SpaceX launches Google AI chips into orbit in push toward space-based data centers Published Thu, Oct 1 2026 7:20 AM EDT Updated Thu, Oct 1 2026 8:06 PM EDT Lora Kolodny @in/lorakolodny/ WATCH LIVE Key Points SpaceX launched Google tensor processing units into orbit on Planet Labs satellites on Thursday. The Transporter-18 mission marks the first in-orbit test for Alphabet's Project Suncatcher, ​a "moonshot" initiative to develop reliable AI computing infrastructure in space. Alphabet holds a stake worth more than $82 billion in SpaceX, which went public in June in a record IPO. In this article SPCX GOOGL Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying Northrop Grumman's Mission Robotic Vehicle (MRV) and Mission Extension Pods (MEPs) launches from Space Force Station's Launch Complex 40 in Cape Canaveral, Florida, on July 21, 2026. Chandan Khanna | AFP | Getty Images Alphabet launched its homegrown AI chips into orbit on Thursday in a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, a step towards making data centers in space a reality. The launch window opened at 11:15 am PT from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California's Santa Barbara County, with liftoff occurring without incident. SpaceX successfully deployed all payloads on board by 1 p.m. local time. SpaceX has promoted supercomputers in space as the next frontier in artificial intelligence infrastructure, touting "infinite real estate" in orbit as a means of escaping the data center backlash on the ground. During the uncrewed Transporter-18 mission, SpaceX will carry Planet Labs satellites, including a solar-powered prototype equipped with Google's tensor processing units (TPUs). The Thursday launch marks the first in-orbit test for Alphabet's Project Suncatcher, a "moonshot" initiative Google first revealed in November 2025. The company aims to develop reliable, solar-powered AI computing infrastructure that can operate continuously in space. "Our team has confirmed contact with the satellite and it is operating as expected," Travis Beals, senior director of Project Suncatcher, wrote in a blog post following the launch. He called it the first step in a long-term research effort, "exploring whether space could one day host scalable machine learning infrastructure." Alphabet is a significant investor in SpaceX, which went public in June in a record IPO, and the businesses are close partners even as their AI divisions compete with one another. Alphabet's stake in SpaceX is currently valued at over $82 billion. watch now VIDEO 5:50 05:50 Planet Labs CEO on satellite launch: The first time we're launching TPUs into space Power Lunch In low Earth orbit, satellites can "access near-constant sunlight, generating up to eight times more solar power than on Earth," Alphabet said in the post. Eventually, they expect to be able to "link together multiple constellations of satellites, allowing them to manage larger AI workloads while in orbit." The Google parent has already tested its TPUs running AI workloads in a facility at the University of California at Davis, but doesn't yet know how its chips will perform in the challenging conditions of low Earth orbit. SpaceX, led by Elon Musk , has also announced that it plans to build and launch its own orbital data centers. They will be comprised of swarms of satellites the company develops in Redmond, Washington, equipped with graphics processing units and solar arrays it plans to produce with Tesla , Musk's automaker. Earlier this year, Musk said data centers in space would be the cheapest way to train AI, "and that will be true within two years, maybe three at the latest." SpaceX COO Gwynne Shotwell said at an event in September that the company will deploy "supercompute in space" in 2027. Industry experts say space-based data centers represent a far-out mission, if they can even become feasible, in part because rocket launches remain capacity-constrained and expensive. Orbital data centers would also require cooling systems and chips that can withstand extreme temperatures, as well as protection from radiation. Clutter and orbital debris could also impede their viability. The Transporter-18 flight was the second major launch in a single day for SpaceX, which also began transporting astronauts to the International Space Station from Florida's Space Coast for NASA with an earlier liftoff on Thursday, marking the start of a six-month mission in orbit. WATCH: SpaceX launches its massive Starship rocket into orbit for first time watch now VIDEO 4:02 04:02 SpaceX launches its massive Starship rocket into orbit for the first time: What you need to know Squawk on the Street Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Join the CNBC Panel Digital Products News Releases Closed Captioning Corrections About CNBC Internships Site Map Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. 
 Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
 Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
 and Analysis.
 Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 