https://www.cnbc.com/2026/09/27/china-bytedance-alibaba-nvidia-chips.html | read 2026-10-02
 China may let ByteDance, Alibaba buy new Nvidia chips: The Information Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Europe Markets China Markets Asia Markets World Markets Currencies Prediction Markets Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Investigations Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics & Policy White House Policy Defense Congress Expanding Opportunity Europe Politics China Politics Asia Politics World Politics Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Top Video Live Audio Europe TV Asia TV CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe PRO Pro News Josh Brown Mike Santoli Calls of the Day My Portfolio Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Livestream Menu Make It select USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Create free account Markets Business Investing Tech Politics & Policy Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech China weighs allowing ByteDance, Alibaba to buy new Nvidia chips, The Information reports Published Sun, Sep 27 2026 2:16 PM EDT WATCH LIVE In this article BABA NVDA Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT The Nvidia logo appears on a smartphone screen, and the flag of China displays as the background on a laptop computer screen in this photo illustration. Nurphoto | Nurphoto | Getty Images The Chinese government has signaled it could allow some domestic companies like ByteDance and Alibaba to buy Nvidia's chip built for high-end professional computers, The Information reported on Sunday, citing two people familiar with the matter. China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology recently asked companies including ByteDance and Alibaba to report their plans to purchase Nvidia's RTX PRO 5500 chips, according to the report. The ministry told some Chinese companies the government intends to approve the purchases, The Information report said, adding that some industry executives expect the RTX PRO 5500 chip to avoid U.S. export restrictions. Reuters could not immediately verify the report. "US firms continue to be restricted by a combination of outdated US export controls, which cover gaming products released nearly half a decade ago, and China's own limits on US imports," an Nvidia spokesperson said when asked to comment. Alibaba and ByteDance did not immediately respond to Reuters' requests for comment. Reuters could not immediately reach the Chinese government for comment. Read the full report from The Information here. Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Join the CNBC Panel Digital Products News Releases Closed Captioning Corrections About CNBC Internships Site Map Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices CA Notice Terms of Service © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company. 
 Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
 Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
 and Analysis.
 Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 