https://devin.ai/blog/devin-cloud-in-your-terminal | read 2026-10-02
 Bringing Devin Cloud to your terminal | Devin Product Solutions Resources Customers Pricing Blog Get a demo Login Get started Bringing Devin Cloud to your terminal Cognition | September 21, 2026 | 2 min read | Copy link Introducing Devin Cloud in your terminal. Starting today, you can create, steer, resume, and watch your Devin Cloud sessions right from your favorite terminal. Just use devin --cloud or /cloud . 
 Devin CLI meets Devin Cloud 
 Devin CLI is perfect for fast local iteration with your favorite models, but sometimes you want to hand off the implementation details to an agent. With /handoff you can now instantly transfer any task to Devin to continue iterating on with its own cloud VM. 
 Importantly, handing off a task doesn’t require switching your workflow: once you’ve delegated work to Devin, you can continue to observe and steer progress directly from your terminal as if Devin was working locally--while having the freedom to close your laptop and let Devin continue in the background. 
 Pick back up, anywhere 
 Cloud sessions outlive the terminal that started them. 
 When a terminal isn’t the right view, /open [web] opens the current session in the web app, and /open desktop opens it in Devin Desktop . Use the terminal to steer, and the browser when you want to watch Devin’s desktop or review a recording. 
 /open [web|desktop]
 And, you can come back to the terminal whenever you want. devin --cloud --resume opens any cloud session right back in the terminal. 
 devin --cloud --resume https://app.devin.ai/sessions/…
 Full SSH access 
 When you hand off work to the cloud, Devin sets up a full development environment on a dedicated VM. We’re now launching full SSH support for Devin VMs, allowing you to use Devin’s development environment as your own. With a simple devin ssh you can instantly connect to the remote VM and: 
 Explore and edit source code directly in Devin Desktop 
 Launch dev servers and forward ports to interactively test Devin’s work 
 Copy files between the VM and your machine using scp 
 devin ssh 
 Bring the work $HOME 
 When you want to polish the final details locally, you can also run /handoff in a cloud session to bring the work back locally: it fetches the session’s pull request branch, switches your Git checkout to it, and starts a local session on that code. 
 Try Devin in your terminal today 
 We’re making it even easier to try Devin Cloud from your terminal, with free SWE-2 sessions available until October 8. 
 Just install the Devin CLI and run devin --cloud to start: 
 curl -fsSL https://cli.devin.ai/install.sh | bash 
 Read more in the docs . Table of contents Devin CLI meets Devin Cloud Pick back up, anywhere Full SSH access Bring the work $HOME Try Devin in your terminal today Company Careers Brand About Support Legal Terms of Service Acceptable Use Policy Privacy Policy Data Use Your Privacy Choices Connect X LinkedIn YouTube Reddit Product Solutions Resources Customers Pricing Blog Get a demo Login Get started 