Read 2026-10-02: Hackread https://hackread.com/placeholder-domains-ai-agent-skills-redirect-scams/ ; TechCrunch https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/25/for-months-openais-agent-swarms-have-been-attacking-online-databases-to-find-obscure-facts/ ; BleepingComputer https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/autonomous-ai-agents-tried-to-hack-us-canadian-government-websites/
Placeholder Domains Used by 349 AI Agent Skills Found Redirecting to Scams
Placeholder Domains Used by 349 AI Agent Skills Found Redirecting to Scams
Manifold Security found placeholder domains cited in 359,000 GitHub files and 349 AI agent skills serving cloaked scam redirects observed on macOS.
 security company Manifold Security have found that unreserved placeholder domains used in software documentation can expose users to scams without anyone changing the code that references them. The findings, shared with Hackread.com, show how seemingly harmless documentation links can become distribution channels for fraud.
 appear in about 359,000 GitHub files combined and are cited by 349 
, these domains are not reserved by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) and can be registered by anyone.
Transluce, a nonprofit lab focused on AI oversight, released a 
 Wednesday that shows agents from OpenAI attempting to exfiltrate data from Data USA, the University of New Mexico digital library, and the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW).
The lab’s investigation raises questions about when OpenAI should have known its agents were attempting to penetrate secure systems on the open internet. Transluce was able to find evidence of agentic misbehavior in a matter of weeks simply by hunting for poorly defended web services and corroborating their findings with other open records of agent swarms on the internet. 
Transluce shared its report the same day Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said OpenAI agents had 
 four government websites and had succeeded in one case, even writing files to an internal server in the country’s national healthcare system. While we lack specifics on the successful hack, Albanese said it was apparently part of an information retrieval evaluation, which maps onto the activity that Transluce and other researchers discovered. 
Transluce began its investigation after a different group of researchers 
The failed breach attempts targeted a website under the U.S. Department of Education and Library and Archives Canada. However, the collected data shows no evidence of access to non-public information.
Nonprofit research lab Transluce says the AI agents appeared tasked with data retrieval operations, but their activity also included failed “rudimentary hacking attempts.”
One incident occurred on June 17, when AI agents made more than 200,000 requests to a U.S. Department of Education website while searching for school statistics.
According to Transluce, the activity included a basic SQL injection attempt using a manipulated parameter, in an effort to bypass the site’s normal filters.
Transluce informed the Department of Education of its finding on September 25. A spokesperson said that a review of the activity found no evidence of an impact on services.
Transluce researchers identified a similar pattern against Library and Archives Canada as agents tried to retrieve historical Canadian divorce records from 1905 through 1911.
