https://siliconangle.com/2026/09/24/googles-first-project-suncatcher-ai-satellite-set-to-blast-off-into-orbit-next-week/ | read 2026-10-02
 
 Google's first Project Suncatcher AI satellite set to blast off into orbit next week - SiliconANGLE 
 Skip to content 
 [the voice of enterprise and emerging tech] 
 OUR NETWORK 
 search 
 Search SiliconANGLE 
 search 
 Submit search 
 THE SILICONANGLE 120 
 Market Data Provided by 
 Search SiliconANGLE 
 search 
 Submit search 
 Home 
 TechForward 
 Cloud 
 Cloud Native 
 AI 
 Security 
 Infra 
 Blockchain 
 Big Data 
 Emerging Tech 
 AWS Marketplace Newsroom 
 Policy 
 Apps 
 Iot 
 Women In Tech 
 theCUBE Research 
 Special Reports 
 Video Exclusives 
 CUBE SPECIAL FEATURES 
 RECENT CUBE EVENTS 
 AWARDS 
 More AWS Marketplace Newsroom Policy Apps Iot Women In Tech theCUBE Research Special Reports Video Exclusives CUBE SPECIAL FEATURES RECENT CUBE EVENTS AWARDS Sign In 
 THE SILICONANGLE 120 
 Market Data Provided by 
 SHARE 
 UPDATED 22:08 EDT / SEPTEMBER 24 2026 
 EMERGING TECH 
 Google’s first Project Suncatcher AI satellite set to blast off into orbit next week 
 by Mike Wheatley 
 Google LLC’s plan to put artificial intelligence data centers into low-Earth orbit is taking shape, as it prepares to launch its first satellite on a SpaceX Corp. rocket next week. 
 In a blog post today, the company said Project Suncatcher will launch a prototype satellite into space in order to study how well its tensor processing units perform in the unique conditions of outer space. “This first launch is about seeing what works, identifying points of failure and applying those findings to future missions,” wrote Travis Beals, senior director of Google’s Paradigms of Intelligence research team. 
 Google first announced Project Suncatcher in November 2025 in response to SpaceX founder Elon Musk’s own plans to launch space-based data centers for AI workloads. It’s the company’s effort to design orbital AI data centers that could potentially serve as a lower-cost alternative to ground-based facilities, which use enormous amounts of energy and water and have become increasingly contentious, with many people opposing their construction. 
 The first Project Suncatcher satellite is expected to launch on Oct. 1, in order to validate the company’s vision of creating a constellation of AI satellites. Like SpaceX, Google wants to tap into the abundance of free solar energy available beyond Earth’s atmosphere in order to lower the costs of AI training and inference. 
 Google’s first satellite is called MVP and it’s about the same size as a refrigerator. Inside it there are four of Google’s custom TPU accelerators, which are widely used here on Earth to train AI models and run inference on trained models. 
 It’s a relatively small test. MVP will contain just four TPUs, and its solar panels will be able to generate only about a kilowatt of power, which is just enough to run a microwave or hair dryer. The TPUs are Google’s, but the satellite itself was developed by a company called Planet Labs PBC, which normally makes satellites for taking high-definition imagery of the Earth’s surface. 
 MVP will launch as just one part of a wider payload aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket. Although this is really just an experiment, Google eventually plans to build a massive network of orbiting satellites that communicate with Earth using high-speed laser connections. If it gets that far, it will likely need to rent SpaceX’s rockets for dedicated launches. 
 Next week’s launch aims to test a number of technologies that Google believes is critical for Project Suncatcher. For instance, Google needs to know how the TPUs themselves will perform in outer space after being subject to a violent 10-minute launch, where they will endure intense vibrations and forces up to 10 times stronger than Earth’s gravity. 
 In addition, the company wants to see how its chips can handle the higher levels of radiation present in space that originate from cosmic rays and other solar events. This radiation could potentially damage the chip’s electronic circuit boards or corrupt data. 
 The chips are expected to hold up. According to Beals, Google has already tested its Trillium TPUs at University of California at Davis’ Crocker Nuclear Laboratory, exposing them to a proton beam while they were running AI workloads. During that test, researchers monitored the workloads closely for signs of any errors and found that they performed “remarkably well,” despite receiving a dose of radiation greater than what they’d be expected to encounter over a five-year space mission. 
 Another problem Google has to solve is the problem of keeping its TPUs cool. The chips generate lots of heat when they’re working at full capacity, but the lack of airflow in the vacuum of space means engineers cannot rely on traditional cooling systems. 
 “We’re working on a number of different approaches for this, including a combination of heat pipes and radiators to cool the chips,” Beals said. “So far, our team has tested the technology in a thermal vacuum chamber that simulates both the thermal and vacuum environment of space. We’ll see how our new TPU cooling system works and refine our designs as we learn more.” 
 Google will most definitely need to improve the efficiency of its cooling system, for the prototype being launched next week won’t be able to keep up with the four TPUs. Beals wrote that the chips will be able to run workloads only in short bursts of about 15 minutes before they have to be shut down in order to cool off. 
 Nonetheless, the mission is a vital one that will inform Google’s future designs and help shape its planning for future Project Suncatcher missions. The company has plans to put two additional satellites into orbit next year in order to test the high-performance lasers it envisions using for communications. 
 There’s a sense of urgency to the mission, too. Google isn’t alone in trying to put AI data centers into space. SpaceX touted its plans for space-based AI infrastructure in its initial public offering prospectus earlier this year. It also faces competition from startups like Starcloud Inc. and Orbital Inc. , which have both announced significant funding rounds earlier this year. 
 Photo: Google 
 A message from John Furrier, co-founder of SiliconANGLE: 
 Support our mission to keep content open and free by engaging with theCUBE community. Join theCUBE’s Alumni Trust Network , where technology leaders connect, share intelligence and create opportunities. 
 15M+ viewers of theCUBE videos , powering conversations across AI, cloud, cybersecurity and more 
 11.4k+ theCUBE alumni -- Connect with more than 11,400 tech and business leaders shaping the future through a unique trusted-based network 
 Are you an AWS customer?  Support SiliconANGLE financially by buying your AWS services from our Marketplace portal page and links: https://siliconangle.com/aws-marketplace/ 
 About SiliconANGLE Media 
 SiliconANGLE Media is a recognized leader in digital media innovation, uniting breakthrough technology, strategic insights and real-time audience engagement. As the parent company of SiliconANGLE , theCUBE Network , theCUBE Research , CUBE365 , theCUBE AI and theCUBE SuperStudios -- with flagship locations in Silicon Valley and the New York Stock Exchange -- SiliconANGLE Media operates at the intersection of media, technology and AI. 
 Founded by tech visionaries John Furrier and Dave Vellante, SiliconANGLE Media has built a dynamic ecosystem of industry-leading digital media brands that reach 15+ million elite tech professionals. Our new proprietary theCUBE AI Video Cloud is breaking ground in audience interaction, leveraging theCUBEai.com neural network to help technology companies make data-driven decisions and stay at the forefront of industry conversations. 
 LATEST STORIES Wiring and powering GPUs differently can swing AI latency by orders of magnitude, says CoreWeave Enterprise storage becomes AI memory as privately run models close in on the frontier Decades of DIY best-of-breed give way to pretested stacks as AI raises integration risk Microsoft targets ultra-realistic voice agents with its first streaming transcription model Satellite software provider Satlyt closes $8M investment Report: Anthropic targets pre-Thanksgiving IPO launch, despite warning of AI's 'existential risks' LATEST STORIES Wiring and powering GPUs differently can swing AI latency by orders of magnitude, says CoreWeave INFRA - BY RYAN STEVENS . 3 HOURS AGO Enterprise storage becomes AI memory as privately run models close in on the frontier AI - BY RYAN STEVENS . 3 HOURS AGO Decades of DIY best-of-breed give way to pretested stacks as AI raises integration risk INFRA - BY RYAN STEVENS . 3 HOURS AGO Microsoft targets ultra-realistic voice agents with its first streaming transcription model AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 13 HOURS AGO Satellite software provider Satlyt closes $8M investment EMERGING TECH - BY MARIA DEUTSCHER . 14 HOURS AGO Report: Anthropic targets pre-Thanksgiving IPO launch, despite warning of AI's 'existential risks' AI - BY MIKE WHEATLEY . 15 HOURS AGO 
 CUBE EVENT COVERAGE    help_outline 
 LATEST FROM THECUBE Wiring and powering GPUs differently can swing AI latency by orders of magnitude, says CoreWeave Enterprise storage becomes AI memory as privately run models close in on the frontier Decades of DIY best-of-breed give way to pretested stacks as AI raises integration risk NetApp's 'sleeping giant' moment as AI brings new data buyers Always-on AI agents turn infrastructure into a continuous learning loop 
 DIVE INTO DAVE VELLANTE’S BREAKING ANALYSIS SERIES help_outline Nvidia’s scale-in play: Controlling agents is the next infrastructure priority CoreWeave’s next test: From GPU scarcity to a durable AI cloud Salesforce after Dreamforce: How the CRM giant can grow beyond its own interface Beyond shared responsibility: When AI acts, who owns the blast radius? CrowdStrike’s post-Mythos surge: Moat, momentum and the blast-radius test 
 Sign Up for Our Weekly Newsletter SUBSCRIBE 
 UPCOMING CUBE EVENTS SEE MORE 
 RECENT CUBE EVENTS Fully Connected 2026 NetApp INSIGHT 2026 Oktane 2026 GraphSummit 2026 Oracle's AI Cyberattacks Are Escalating: How to Secure Your Data Now 2026 
 PRIVACY POLICY 
 TERMS 
 ABOUT US 
 CONTACT US 
 BRAND GUIDELINES 
 Send us a News tip 
 Join our community 
 theCUBE
 theCUBE Research
 © 2026 SiliconANGLE Media Inc. All rights reserved. 
 × 
 Send us a news tip 
 Send us a News Tip 
 Company This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Name * 
 First 
 Last 
 Type of Pitch * Consumer or Enterprise? Enterprise Startup News Emerging Technology Email * 
 What's your story? * File Max. file size: 244 MB. CAPTCHA 
 × 
 Sign in 
 SIGN IN ... Remember me LOGIN Forgot Password? 
 × 
 Bio 
 Ethics statement 
 × 
 Extract the signal from the noise 
 Get SiliconANGLE updates and analysis. 
 × 
 Contact us 
 Inquire about guest posts All other inquiries 
 × Partner with us 
 NAME OF INDIVIDUAL * NAME OF COMPANY * EMAIL * 
 COMMENTS * 
 × Contact us 
 NAME OF INDIVIDUAL * NAME OF COMPANY * EMAIL * 
 COMMENTS * CAPTCHA 
 × Guest inquiry 
 NAME OF INDIVIDUAL * NAME OF COMPANY * EMAIL * COMMENTS * CAPTCHA 
 We use cookies for analytics and measurement. You can accept or reject tracking cookies. See our Privacy Policy . 
 Accept 
 Reject 
