https://arxiv.org/abs/2601.17111
[2601.17111] Least-Loaded Expert Parallelism: Load Balancing An Imbalanced Mixture-of-Experts
['Nguyen, Xuan-Phi', 'Pandit, Shrey', 'Xu, Austin', 'Xiong, Caiming', 'Joty, Shafiq']
Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models are typically pre-trained with explicit load-balancing constraints to ensure statistically balanced expert routing. Despite this, we observe that even well-trained MoE models exhibit significantly imbalanced routing. This behavior is arguably natural-and even desirable - as imbalanced routing allows models to concentrate domain-specific knowledge within a subset of experts. Expert parallelism (EP) is designed to scale MoE models by distributing experts across multiple devices, but with a less-discussed assumption of balanced routing. Under extreme imbalance, EP can funnel a disproportionate number of tokens to a small number of experts, leading to compute- and memory-bound failures on overloaded devices during post-training or inference, where explicit load balancing is often inapplicable. We propose Least-Loaded Expert Parallelism (LLEP), a novel EP algorithm that dynamically reroutes excess tokens and associated expert parameters from overloaded devices to underutilized ones. This ensures that all devices complete their workloads within the minimum collective latency while respecting memory constraints. Across different model scales, LLEP achieves up to 5x speedup and 4x reduction in peak memory usage compared to standard EP. This enables faster and higher-throughput post-training and inference, with ~1.9x faster for gpt-oss-120b. We support our method with extensive theoretical analysis and comprehensive empirical evaluations, including ablation studies. These results illuminate key trade-offs and enable a principled framework for hardware-specific hyper-parameter tuning to achieve optimal performance.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.01844
[2607.01844] Mixture-of-Parallelisms: Towards Memory-Efficient Training Stack for Mixture-of-Experts Models
['Nguyen, Xuan-Phi', 'Pandit, Shrey', 'Zhao, Yiran', 'Yavuz, Semih', 'Savarese, Silvio', 'Joty, Shafiq']
This paper showcases a memory-efficient training stack for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models. It is a training paradigm that combines and specializes various existing and novel parallelism techniques at different layers and stages of the Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) model training pipeline. It leverages these techniques to achieve maximal efficiency given the physical constraints of CPU, CPU memory, GPU HBM memory, and the CPU-GPU, GPU-GPU, and node-node communication bandwidth of the GPU cluster. It also contains a novel strategy for the optimizer step to achieve high throughput and memory efficiency, enabling practitioners to conduct lossless pre-training/fine-tuning of trillion-parameter scale models, at a million context length, with just under 12 8x H200 GPU nodes, with state-of-the-art throughput and memory efficiency. In our experiments, MoP delivers 4.7x--8.2x higher per-GPU throughput than a strongly-tuned FSDP2 baseline (with the gap widening at larger scale) and sustains training at context lengths up to 1M tokens, where the baseline runs out of memory beyond 64--128K.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09009
[2411.09009] Cut Your Losses in Large-Vocabulary Language Models
As language models grow ever larger, so do their vocabularies. This has shifted the memory footprint of LLMs during training disproportionately to one single layer: the cross-entropy in the loss computation. Cross-entropy builds up a logit matrix with entries for each pair of input tokens and vocabulary items and, for small models, consumes an order of magnitude more memory than the rest of the LLM combined. We propose Cut Cross-Entropy (CCE), a method that computes the cross-entropy loss without materializing the logits for all tokens into global memory. Rather, CCE only computes the logit for the correct token and evaluates the log-sum-exp over all logits on the fly. We implement a custom kernel that performs the matrix multiplications and the log-sum-exp reduction over the vocabulary in flash memory, making global memory consumption for the cross-entropy computation negligible. This has a dramatic effect. Taking the Gemma 2 (2B) model as an example, CCE reduces the memory footprint of the loss computation from 24 GB to 1 MB, and the total training-time memory consumption of the classifier head from 28 GB to 1 GB. To improve the throughput of CCE, we leverage the inherent sparsity of softmax and propose to skip elements of the gradient computation that have a negligible (i.e., below numerical precision) contribution to the gradient. Experiments demonstrate that the dramatic reduction in memory consumption is accomplished without sacrificing training speed or convergence.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.06840
[2101.06840] ZeRO-Offload: Democratizing Billion-Scale Model Training
Large-scale model training has been a playing ground for a limited few requiring complex model refactoring and access to prohibitively expensive GPU clusters. ZeRO-Offload changes the large model training landscape by making large model training accessible to nearly everyone. It can train models with over 13 billion parameters on a single GPU, a 10x increase in size compared to popular framework such as PyTorch, and it does so without requiring any model change from the data scientists or sacrificing computational efficiency. ZeRO-Offload enables large model training by offloading data and compute to CPU. To preserve compute efficiency, it is designed to minimize the data movement to/from GPU, and reduce CPU compute time while maximizing memory savings on GPU. As a result, ZeRO-Offload can achieve 40 TFlops/GPU on a single NVIDIA V100 GPU for 10B parameter model compared to 30TF using PyTorch alone for a 1.4B parameter model, the largest that can be trained without running out of memory. ZeRO-Offload is also designed to scale on multiple-GPUs when available, offering near linear speedup on up to 128 GPUs. Additionally, it can work together with model parallelism to train models with over 70 billion parameters on a single DGX-2 box, a 4.5x increase in model size compared to using model parallelism alone. By combining compute and memory efficiency with ease-of-use, ZeRO-Offload democratizes large-scale model training making it accessible to even data scientists with access to just a single GPU.

