Lines quoted from later work, fetched 2026-10-02 (PDF text by pdftotext -layout; scratch copies not kept).

== GLIDE, https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10741 (v1 20 Dec 2021), Sec. 4
For our main experiments, we train a 3.5 billion parameter       M
text-conditional diffusion model at 64 × 64 resolution, and      i
another 1.5 billion parameter text-conditional upsampling        (
diffusion model to increase the resolution to 256 × 256. For     2
CLIP guidance, we also train a noised 64 × 64 ViT-L CLIP         f

== DiT, https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.09748 (19 Dec 2022), Sec. 5 and abstract
Diffusion. We use an off-the-shelf pre-trained variational    
autoencoder (VAE) model [30] from Stable Diffusion [48].
                                                              
abstract: our largest DiT-XL/2 models ... achieving a state-of-the-art FID of 2.27 on [ImageNet 256x256]

== SDXL, https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01952 (4 Jul 2023), Table 1

                                                       2
                    Table 1: Comparison of SDXL and older Stable Diffusion models.
 Model                                   SDXL                      SD 1.4/1.5         SD 2.0/2.1
 # of UNet params                      2.6B                         860M               865M
 Transformer blocks                 [0, 2, 10]                    [1, 1, 1, 1]       [1, 1, 1, 1]
 Channel mult.                       [1, 2, 4]                    [1, 2, 4, 4]       [1, 2, 4, 4]
 Text encoder            CLIP ViT-L & OpenCLIP ViT-bigG           CLIP ViT-L      OpenCLIP ViT-H

== SD3, https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03206 (5 Mar 2024), Sec. 5.2.1 and Fig. 1
training. Similar to Dai et al. (2023), we find that increasin
the number of latent channels d significantly boosts recon-
struction performance, see Table 3. Intuitively, predicting
latents with higher d is a more difficult task, and thus mod-
els with increased capacity should be able to perform better
for larger d, ultimately achieving higher image quality. We
confirm this hypothesis in Figure 10, where we see that the
d = 16 autoencoder exhibits better scaling performance in
terms of sample FID. For the remainder of this paper, we
thus choose d = 16.
metrics for different channel configurations. The downsampling                  
factor for all models is f = 8.                                                 
 Figure 1. High-resolution samples from our 8B rectified flow model, showcasing its capabilities in typography, precise p

== FLUX.1 [schnell] model card, https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-schnell
`FLUX.1 [schnell]` is a 12 billion parameter rectified flow transformer capable of generating images from text descriptions.
== FLUX code, https://github.com/black-forest-labs/flux/blob/main/src/flux/util.py: ae_params ch_mult=[1, 2, 4, 4], z_channels=16, scale_factor=0.3611

== Sora report, https://openai.com/index/video-generation-models-as-world-simulators/ (Wayback raw capture 2024)
we turn videos into patches by first compressing videos into a lower-dimensional latent space ... Sora is trained on and subsequently generates videos within this compressed latent space. ... we find that diffusion transformers scale effectively as video models as well.

== Abstracts (export.arxiv.org/abs)
2112.10741 | GLIDE: Towards Photorealistic Image Generation and Editing with Text-Guided Diffusion Models | 20 Dec 2021 (v1), last revised 8 Mar 2022 (this version, v3)
   Abstract:Diffusion models have recently been shown to generate high-quality synthetic images, especially when paired with a guidance technique to trade off diversity for fidelity. We explore diffusion models for the problem of text-conditional image synthesis and compare two different guidance strategies: CLIP guidance and classifier-free guidance. We find that the latter is preferred by human evaluators for both photorealism and caption similarity, and often produces photorealistic samples. Samples from a 3.5 billion parameter text-conditional diffusion model using classifier-free guidance are favored by human evaluators to those from DALL-E, even when the latter uses expensive CLIP reranking. Additionally, we find that our models can be fine-tuned to perform image inpainting, enabling powerful text-driven image editing. We train a smaller model on a filtered dataset and release the cod
2212.09748 | Scalable Diffusion Models with Transformers | 19 Dec 2022 (v1), last revised 2 Mar 2023 (this version, v2)
   Abstract:We explore a new class of diffusion models based on the transformer architecture. We train latent diffusion models of images, replacing the commonly-used U-Net backbone with a transformer that operates on latent patches. We analyze the scalability of our Diffusion Transformers (DiTs) through the lens of forward pass complexity as measured by Gflops. We find that DiTs with higher Gflops -- through increased transformer depth/width or increased number of input tokens -- consistently have lower FID. In addition to possessing good scalability properties, our largest DiT-XL/2 models outperform all prior diffusion models on the class-conditional ImageNet 512x512 and 256x256 benchmarks, achieving a state-of-the-art FID of 2.27 on the latter.
2307.01952 | SDXL: Improving Latent Diffusion Models for High-Resolution Image Synthesis | 4 Jul 2023
   Abstract:We present SDXL, a latent diffusion model for text-to-image synthesis. Compared to previous versions of Stable Diffusion, SDXL leverages a three times larger UNet backbone: The increase of model parameters is mainly due to more attention blocks and a larger cross-attention context as SDXL uses a second text encoder. We design multiple novel conditioning schemes and train SDXL on multiple aspect ratios. We also introduce a refinement model which is used to improve the visual fidelity of samples generated by SDXL using a post-hoc image-to-image technique. We demonstrate that SDXL shows drastically improved performance compared the previous versions of Stable Diffusion and achieves results competitive with those of black-box state-of-the-art image generators. In the spirit of promoting open research and fostering transparency in large model training and evaluation, we provide acces
2403.03206 | Scaling Rectified Flow Transformers for High-Resolution Image Synthesis | 5 Mar 2024
   Abstract:Diffusion models create data from noise by inverting the forward paths of data towards noise and have emerged as a powerful generative modeling technique for high-dimensional, perceptual data such as images and videos. Rectified flow is a recent generative model formulation that connects data and noise in a straight line. Despite its better theoretical properties and conceptual simplicity, it is not yet decisively established as standard practice. In this work, we improve existing noise sampling techniques for training rectified flow models by biasing them towards perceptually relevant scales. Through a large-scale study, we demonstrate the superior performance of this approach compared to established diffusion formulations for high-resolution text-to-image synthesis. Additionally, we present a novel transformer-based architecture for text-to-image generation that uses separate 
2311.15127 | Stable Video Diffusion: Scaling Latent Video Diffusion Models to Large Datasets | 25 Nov 2023
   Abstract:We present Stable Video Diffusion - a latent video diffusion model for high-resolution, state-of-the-art text-to-video and image-to-video generation. Recently, latent diffusion models trained for 2D image synthesis have been turned into generative video models by inserting temporal layers and finetuning them on small, high-quality video datasets. However, training methods in the literature vary widely, and the field has yet to agree on a unified strategy for curating video data. In this paper, we identify and evaluate three different stages for successful training of video LDMs: text-to-image pretraining, video pretraining, and high-quality video finetuning. Furthermore, we demonstrate the necessity of a well-curated pretraining dataset for generating high-quality videos and present a systematic curation process to train a strong base model, including captioning and filtering st
2301.12503 | AudioLDM: Text-to-Audio Generation with Latent Diffusion Models | 29 Jan 2023 (v1), last revised 9 Sep 2023 (this version, v3)
   Abstract:Text-to-audio (TTA) system has recently gained attention for its ability to synthesize general audio based on text descriptions. However, previous studies in TTA have limited generation quality with high computational costs. In this study, we propose AudioLDM, a TTA system that is built on a latent space to learn the continuous audio representations from contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) latents. The pretrained CLAP models enable us to train LDMs with audio embedding while providing text embedding as a condition during sampling. By learning the latent representations of audio signals and their compositions without modeling the cross-modal relationship, AudioLDM is advantageous in both generation quality and computational efficiency. Trained on AudioCaps with a single GPU, AudioLDM achieves state-of-the-art TTA performance measured by both objective and subjective met
2402.04825 | Fast Timing-Conditioned Latent Audio Diffusion | 7 Feb 2024 (v1), last revised 13 May 2024 (this version, v3)
   Abstract:Generating long-form 44.1kHz stereo audio from text prompts can be computationally demanding. Further, most previous works do not tackle that music and sound effects naturally vary in their duration. Our research focuses on the efficient generation of long-form, variable-length stereo music and sounds at 44.1kHz using text prompts with a generative model. Stable Audio is based on latent diffusion, with its latent defined by a fully-convolutional variational autoencoder. It is conditioned on text prompts as well as timing embeddings, allowing for fine control over both the content and length of the generated music and sounds. Stable Audio is capable of rendering stereo signals of up to 95 sec at 44.1kHz in 8 sec on an A100 GPU. Despite its compute efficiency and fast inference, it is one of the best in two public text-to-music and -audio benchmarks and, differently from state-of-
2302.05543 | Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models | 10 Feb 2023 (v1), last revised 26 Nov 2023 (this version, v3)
   Abstract:We present ControlNet, a neural network architecture to add spatial conditioning controls to large, pretrained text-to-image diffusion models. ControlNet locks the production-ready large diffusion models, and reuses their deep and robust encoding layers pretrained with billions of images as a strong backbone to learn a diverse set of conditional controls. The neural architecture is connected with "zero convolutions" (zero-initialized convolution layers) that progressively grow the parameters from zero and ensure that no harmful noise could affect the finetuning. We test various conditioning controls, eg, edges, depth, segmentation, human pose, etc, with Stable Diffusion, using single or multiple conditions, with or without prompts. We show that the training of ControlNets is robust with small (<50k) and large (>1m) datasets. Extensive results show that ControlNet may facilitate 
2308.06721 | IP-Adapter: Text Compatible Image Prompt Adapter for Text-to-Image Diffusion Models | 13 Aug 2023
   Abstract:Recent years have witnessed the strong power of large text-to-image diffusion models for the impressive generative capability to create high-fidelity images. However, it is very tricky to generate desired images using only text prompt as it often involves complex prompt engineering. An alternative to text prompt is image prompt, as the saying goes: "an image is worth a thousand words". Although existing methods of direct fine-tuning from pretrained models are effective, they require large computing resources and are not compatible with other base models, text prompt, and structural controls. In this paper, we present IP-Adapter, an effective and lightweight adapter to achieve image prompt capability for the pretrained text-to-image diffusion models. The key design of our IP-Adapter is decoupled cross-attention mechanism that separates cross-attention layers for text features and
2209.03003 | Flow Straight and Fast: Learning to Generate and Transfer Data with Rectified Flow | 7 Sep 2022
   Abstract:We present rectified flow, a surprisingly simple approach to learning (neural) ordinary differential equation (ODE) models to transport between two empirically observed distributions \pi_0 and \pi_1, hence providing a unified solution to generative modeling and domain transfer, among various other tasks involving distribution transport. The idea of rectified flow is to learn the ODE to follow the straight paths connecting the points drawn from \pi_0 and \pi_1 as much as possible. This is achieved by solving a straightforward nonlinear least squares optimization problem, which can be easily scaled to large models without introducing extra parameters beyond standard supervised learning. The straight paths are special and preferred because they are the shortest paths between two points, and can be simulated exactly without time discretization and hence yield computationally efficie
2210.02747 | Flow Matching for Generative Modeling | 6 Oct 2022 (v1), last revised 8 Feb 2023 (this version, v2)
   Abstract:We introduce a new paradigm for generative modeling built on Continuous Normalizing Flows (CNFs), allowing us to train CNFs at unprecedented scale. Specifically, we present the notion of Flow Matching (FM), a simulation-free approach for training CNFs based on regressing vector fields of fixed conditional probability paths. Flow Matching is compatible with a general family of Gaussian probability paths for transforming between noise and data samples -- which subsumes existing diffusion paths as specific instances. Interestingly, we find that employing FM with diffusion paths results in a more robust and stable alternative for training diffusion models. Furthermore, Flow Matching opens the door to training CNFs with other, non-diffusion probability paths. An instance of particular interest is using Optimal Transport (OT) displacement interpolation to define the conditional probab
