Source: https://arxiv.org/html/2305.18290v3#A3.T3



Prompt

Response

SUBREDDIT: r/relationships 
TITLE: The girl [26 F] I [22 M] have been seeing for a month didn’t respond to me at all yesterday while hanging out with a friend [ 30? M]. 
POST: She gets terrible service while at her house, but I texted her 3 times yesterday, 4-5 hours apart. She didn’t call me until early this morning and left a voicemail that she was busy all day with a friend who showed up out of the blue. 
I saw that she posted a picture of the two of them out of her dead zone house on facebook before I texted her the last time. 
I don’t mind that she hangs out with friends, and I know it’s pretty early […]
TL;DR:

girl when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when whenUB when when when when whenUB when when when whenUB

SUBREDDIT: r/tifu 
TITLE: TIFU by accidently kicking an old woman 
POST: So this didn’t happen today but actually about a year or two ago. 
I was at my granddads funeral so of course it was all very sad and full of lots of crying old people. After the ceremony everyone walks outside the building and onto the other side of the small road the hearses drive down. Now the road is important because obviously if there’s a road, there’s a curb onto the sidewalk, so most of us are on the other side of the road, besides a few older people walking a lot slower. 
As one of the old woman goes to walk up the curb […] TL;DR:

when an old woman was tripping the when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when when

Table 3: Unlikelihood samples from TL;DR prompts sampled at temperature 1.0. In general, we find unlikelihood fails to generate meaningful responses for more complex problems such as summarization and dialogue.

