Source: https://arxiv.org/html/2305.18290v3#A4.T4



Prompt	

SUBREDDIT: r/AskReddit
TITLE: I’ve been ungrateful to parents who have wanted only the best for me for the longest time. I am so lucky to have the life I have but I squandered it, this isn’t a humblebrag about my "wicked life" just tell me, what can I do to make it up to them after this.
POST: I’m 17, leaving for University, and I’ve had epiphany after epiphany of how shitty i’ve beent to them, or how all the nice things they do I ruin with moods etc., I know there isn’t a quick fix, but I want to do something nice. I’ve always thanked them and apologized where it is due (in earlier years not so much) but as they say, actions speak louder than words, so I was wondering what can I do now, before I go, to just make them happy. What can I keep doing, I know all the little things, doing chores, keeping my room clean, cleaning up after myself, helping around the house, but what’s a big thing, for say christmas, or their birthdays, that I can do to make them happy?

DPO	

TL;DR: I’ve been a shitty child and I want to make up for it, what can I do for my parents on their birthdays and christmas to show them how much I love them?

PPO	

TL;DR: I’ve been a shitty person to my parents, what can I do to make it up to them, before I go, and what can I do after university to make them happy, and what can I do to make them happy after university (if that is the case)

Judgment	

Summary B [DPO] more effectively captures the main points of the post by focusing on making the parents happy through gestures on special occasions, while Summary A seems repetitive and less clear.

Table 4: Sample summaries to a post from the TL;DR test set. DPO sample generated with a temperature 0.25; PPO sample generated at a temperature of 0. The order in which summaries are presented in randomized when evaluating with GPT-4, so the order in the Judgment may not correspond to the order in the table. For clarity, post-hoc annotations are included in bold, formatted as [annotation]. These annotations are not part of the model generations.

