Source: https://arxiv.org/html/2305.18290v3#A4.T5



Prompt	

SUBREDDIT: r/relationships
TITLE: I [22 M] am about to propose to my girlfriend [22F] of almost 2 years, and I can’t calm myself down
POST: Alright, so I am preparing to propose to my girlfriend of almost 2 years
(we were friends for double that beforehand) in a couple days and I am starting to get EXTREMELY anxious/nervous. We have talked about this for months, and I know she will say yes, but I can’t seem to relax.
The other day I bought the ring, which I fell in love with myself and know she will too. And then two days ago, I asked her dad’s blessing. Everything has gone great so far, but now leading up to it I can’t think about anything else. I can’t sleep. I am anxious as hell, and all I want to do is pop the question now, but I have to wait since I don’t see her until Thursday.
I know how I am going to do it. I have thoroughly planned it out and I am more than prepared. But, at the same time, I am freaking out. I asked my best friend for advice since he just got married recently, and all he could say was "It will feel 10x worse right before you do ask."
Any suggestions on how to relax leading up to it? I would like to be able to sleep…

DPO	

TL;DR: About to propose to my girlfriend of almost 2 years, but I am extremely anxious and can’t sleep. How can I relax?

PPO	

TL;DR: I am about to ask my girlfriend of almost 2 years to marry me, and I can’t calm myself down. Any tips on how to relax? I would like to be able to sleep tonight (and the night before)………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

Judgment	

Summary A [DPO] more effectively summarizes the main points of the post, concisely conveying the asker’s anxiety and goal of finding ways to relax.

Table 5: Sample summaries to a post from the TL;DR test set. DPO sample generated with a temperature 0.25; PPO sample generated at a temperature of 0. The order in which summaries are presented in randomized when evaluating with GPT-4, so the order in the Judgment may not correspond to the order in the table. For clarity, post-hoc annotations are included in bold, formatted as [annotation]. These annotations are not part of the model generations.

