== PaLM, arXiv 2204.02311, Training setup
    • Loss function – The model is trained with the standard language modeling loss function, which is the
      average log probability of all tokens without label smoothing. We additionally use an auxiliary loss
      of z loss = 10−4 · log2 Z to encourage the softmax normalizer log(Z) to be close to 0, which we found
      increases the stability of training.
== Goodfellow et al. 2014, arXiv 1406.2661, section 3
In practice, equation 1 may not provide sufficient gradient for G to learn well. Early in learning,
when G is poor, D can reject samples with high confidence because they are clearly different from
the training data. In this case, log(1 − D(G(z))) saturates. Rather than training G to minimize
log(1 − D(G(z))) we can train G to maximize log D(G(z)). This objective function results in the
same fixed point of the dynamics of G and D but provides much stronger gradients early in learning.
== Wortsman et al. 2023, arXiv 2309.14322, 3.1.2
 3.1.2                Output logit divergence
                                                            
 Another instability reported by researchers training       


                                                            
 large models is divergence in the output logits from       
 the log probabilities [6]. Just as before, we reproduce    
 this instability with small models at large learning       
                                                            
 rates, and the proposed mitigation ameliorates the         
 issue. Overall, Figure 3 summarizes the effect.            
                                                            
 Let y denote the model’s output logits, which are
 used to compute class P  probabilities pi via a softmax    
 pi = eyi /Z where Z = j eyj . This instability occurs      
 when the logits diverge and become very negative, as       
 illustrated in Figure 4 for a 2.4M parameter model at      
 learning rate 0.1. In contrast to the attention logit
 growth instability, this divergence occurs towards the
 end of training. The mitigation proposed by Chowdh-        
 ery et al. [6] is to encourage log Z to remain close to    
 zero. They add an auxiliary loss log2 Z, referred to       
 as z-loss, with coefficient 1e-4.
 As illustrated in Figures 3 and 4, we find that instabil-  
 ity related to output logit divergence occurs in models    
 with no weight decay regardless of scale, and z-loss       
 resolves this instability. Weight decay also mitigates     
 this instability for the larger models we test.            
== Gemma 2, arXiv 2408.00118
    Logit soft-capping. We cap logits (Bello et al.,

    2016) in each attention layer and the final layer

    such that the value of the logits stays between

    −soft_cap and +soft_cap. More specifically, we

    cap the logits with the following function:


        logits ← soft_cap ∗ tanh(logits/soft_cap) .


    We set the soft_cap parameter to 50.0 for the self-

    attention layers and to 30.0 for the final layer.
== Gneiting 2011, arXiv 0912.0902
the Bayes rule is any median of the predictive distribution. The class
                                                y β
                              Sβ (x, y) = 1 −             (β 6= 0)                          (4)
                                                 x
of scoring functions nests both the absolute percentage error (β = −1) and the relative error
(β = 1) scoring functions. If the predictive distribution F has density f on the positive
half-axis and a finite fractional moment of order β, the optimal point forecast under the loss
or scoring function (4) is the median of a random variable whose density is proportional to
y β f (y). We call this the β-median of the probability distribution F and write med(β) (F ).
The traditional median arises in the limit as β → 0.
As regards the most commonly used scoring functions in academia, businesses and organi-
zations, the squared error scoring function is consistent for the mean, and the absolute error
scoring function for the median. The absolute percentage error scoring function, which is
commonly used by businesses and organizations, and occasionally in academia, is consistent
for a non-standard functional, namely, the median of order −1, med(−1) , which tends to sup-
port severe underforecasts, as compared to the mean or median. It thus seems prudent that
== Mukhoti et al. 2020, arXiv 2002.09437
Why might focal loss improve calibration? We know that cross-entropy forms an upper bound
on the KL-divergence between the target distribution q and the predicted distribution p̂, i.e. Lc ≥
KL(q||p̂), so minimising cross-entropy results in minimising KL(q||p̂). Interestingly, a general
form of focal loss can be shown to be an upper bound on the regularised KL-divergence, where the
regulariser is the negative entropy of the predicted distribution p̂, and the regularisation parameter is
The most interesting property of this upper bound is that it shows that replacing cross-entropy with
focal loss has the effect of adding a maximum-entropy regulariser [Pereyra et al., 2017] to the implicit
minimisation that was previously being performed. In other words, trying to minimise focal loss
minimises the KL divergence between p̂ and q, whilst simultaneously increasing the entropy of the
predicted distribution p̂. Note, in the case of ground truth with one-hot encoding, only the component
of the entropy of p̂ corresponding to the ground-truth index, γ(−p̂i,yi log p̂i,yi ), will be maximised
== Muller et al. 2019, arXiv 1906.02629, section 4
In this section, we study how the use of label smoothing to train a teacher network affects the ability
to distill the teacher’s knowledge into a student network. We show that, even when label smoothing
improves the accuracy of the teacher network, teachers trained with label smoothing produce inferior
student networks compared to teachers trained with hard targets. We first noticed this effect when
trying to replicate a result in [16]. A non-convolutional teacher is trained on randomly translated
MNIST digits with hard targets and dropout and gets 0.67% test error. Using distillation, this teacher
can be used to train a narrower, unregularized student on untranslated digits to get 0.74% test error. If
we use label smoothing instead of dropout, the teacher trains much faster and does slightly better
(0.59%) but distillation produces a much worse student with 0.91% test error. Something goes
seriously wrong with distillation when the teacher is trained with label smoothing.
temperature scaling affects ECE. Both methods can be used to reduce ECE to a similar and smaller
value than an uncalibrated network trained with hard targets.
We also performed experiments on ImageNet (Fig. 2 right). Again, the network trained with hard
targets (blue curve without markers) is over-confident and achieves a high ECE of 0.071. Using
temperature scaling (T= 1.4), ECE is reduced to 0.022 (blue curve with crosses). Although we did
not tune α extensively, we found that label smoothing of α = 0.1 improves ECE to 0.035, resulting
== Bartlett, Jordan, McAuliffe 2006 (author PDF)
Figure 1: A plot of the 0-1 loss function and surrogates corresponding to various practical classifiers.
These functions are plotted as a function of the margin α = yf (x). Note that a classification error
is made if and only if the margin is negative; thus the 0-1 loss is a step function that is equal to one
for negative values of the abscissa. The curve labeled “logistic” is the negative log likelihood, or
deviance, under a logistic regression model; “hinge” is the piecewise-linear loss used in the support
vector machine; and “exponential” is the exponential loss used by the Adaboost algorithm. The
deviance is scaled so as to majorize the 0-1 loss; see Lemma 9.


Theorem 6. Let φ be convex. Then φ is classification-calibrated if and only if it is differentiable
at 0 and φ0 (0) < 0.
== Long and Servedio 2010 abstract

Received: date / Accepted: date

Abstract A broad class of boosting algorithms can be interpreted as performing
coordinate-wise gradient descent to minimize some potential function of the margins
of a data set. This class includes AdaBoost, LogitBoost, and other widely used and
well-studied boosters. In this paper we show that for a broad class of convex potential
functions, any such boosting algorithm is highly susceptible to random classification
noise. We do this by showing that for any such booster and any nonzero random classification noise rate η, there is a simple data set of examples which is efficiently learnable
by such a booster if there is no noise, but which cannot be learned to accuracy better
than 1/2 if there is random classification noise at rate η. This holds even if the booster
regularizes using early stopping or a bound on the L1 norm of the voting weights. This
negative result is in contrast with known branching program based boosters which do
== LSGAN arXiv 1611.04076
        has proven hugely successful. Regular GANs hypothesize the discrimina-
        tor as a classifier with the sigmoid cross entropy loss function. However,
        we found that this loss function may lead to the vanishing gradients prob-
        lem during the learning process. To overcome such a problem, we propose
        in this paper the Least Squares Generative Adversarial Networks (LS-
        GANs) which adopt the least squares loss function for the discriminator.
        We show that minimizing the objective function of LSGAN yields min-
        imizing the Pearson χ2 divergence. There are two benefits of LSGANs
        over regular GANs. First, LSGANs are able to generate higher quality
== WGAN arXiv 1701.07875
   • The Earth-Mover (EM) distance or Wasserstein-1
    Weight clipping is a clearly terrible way to enforce a Lipschitz constraint. If the
== Lin et al. 2017 focal (arXiv HTML v2), quoted via fetch
with γ=2, an example classified with pt=0.9 would have 100× lower loss compared with CE and with pt≈0.968 it would have 1000× lower loss.
FL(pt) = −αt(1−pt)γ log(pt)
we found γ=2 to work best in our experiments / for γ=2, α=0.25 works best / lower α s are selected for higher γ s
Easily classified negatives comprise the majority of the loss and dominate the gradient.
We use π=.01 in all experiments.
== Bartlett et al. 2006, Example 3 (hinge)
Example 3 (Hinge loss). Here we take φ(α) = max{1 − α, 0}, which is shown in the left panel
of Figure 4 along with φ(−α), C0.3 (α), and C0.7 (α). By direct consideration of the piecewise-linear
form of Cη (α), it is easy to see that for η = 0, each α ≤ −1 makes Cη (α) vanish, just as in Example
2. The same holds for α ≥ 1 when η = 1. Now for η ∈ (0, 1), we see that Cη decreases strictly on
(−∞, −1] and increases strictly on [1, ∞). Thus any minima must lie in [−1, 1]. But Cη is linear
on [−1, 1], so the minimum must be attained at 1 for η > 1/2, −1 for η < 1/2, and anywhere in
[−1, 1] for η = 1/2. We have argued that

                                                α∗ (η) = sign(η − 1/2)                                          (3)
