RFC 6455 section 1.1 (Background), text as published by the RFC Editor; page headers and footers removed.

_This section is non-normative._

   Historically, creating web applications that need bidirectional
   communication between a client and a server (e.g., instant messaging
   and gaming applications) has required an abuse of HTTP to poll the
   server for updates while sending upstream notifications as distinct
   HTTP calls [RFC6202].

   This results in a variety of problems:

   o  The server is forced to use a number of different underlying TCP
      connections for each client: one for sending information to the
      client and a new one for each incoming message.

   o  The wire protocol has a high overhead, with each client-to-server
      message having an HTTP header.

   o  The client-side script is forced to maintain a mapping from the
      outgoing connections to the incoming connection to track replies.

   A simpler solution would be to use a single TCP connection for
   traffic in both directions.  This is what the WebSocket Protocol
   provides.  Combined with the WebSocket API [WSAPI], it provides an
   alternative to HTTP polling for two-way communication from a web page
   to a remote server.

   The same technique can be used for a variety of web applications:
   games, stock tickers, multiuser applications with simultaneous
   editing, user interfaces exposing server-side services in real time,
   etc.

   The WebSocket Protocol is designed to supersede existing
   bidirectional communication technologies that use HTTP as a transport
   layer to benefit from existing infrastructure (proxies, filtering,
   authentication).  Such technologies were implemented as trade-offs
   between efficiency and reliability because HTTP was not initially
   meant to be used for bidirectional communication (see [RFC6202] for
   further discussion).  The WebSocket Protocol attempts to address the
   goals of existing bidirectional HTTP technologies in the context of
   the existing HTTP infrastructure; as such, it is designed to work
   over HTTP ports 80 and 443 as well as to support HTTP proxies and
   intermediaries, even if this implies some complexity specific to the
   current environment.  However, the design does not limit WebSocket to
   HTTP, and future implementations could use a simpler handshake over a







   dedicated port without reinventing the entire protocol.  This last
   point is important because the traffic patterns of interactive
   messaging do not closely match standard HTTP traffic and can induce
   unusual loads on some components.
