# https://www.openssh.com/pq.html fetched 2026-10-05
OpenSSH: Post-Quantum Cryptography

OpenSSH
Post-Quantum Cryptography

OpenSSH supports a number of cryptographic key agreement algorithms
considered to be safe against attacks from quantum computers.
We recommend that all SSH connections use these algorithms.

OpenSSH has offered post-quantum key agreement (KexAlgorithms)
by default since release 9.0 (April 2022), initially via the
sntrup761x25519-sha512 algorithm. More recently, in OpenSSH 9.9,
we have added a second post-quantum key agreement mlkem768x25519-sha256
and it was made the new default scheme in OpenSSH 10.0 (April 2025).

To encourage migration to these stronger algorithms, OpenSSH 10.1 will warn
the user when a non post-quantum key agreement scheme is selected, with the
following message:

** WARNING: connection is not using a post-quantum key exchange algorithm.
** This session may be vulnerable to "store now, decrypt later" attacks.
** The server may need to be upgraded. See https://openssh.com/pq.html

This warning is displayed by default but may be disabled via the
WarnWeakCrypto option in
ssh_config(5).

Background

A quantum computer (QC) is a device capable of performing computations
with information encoded as quantum states. Such a device could quickly solve
particular problems that are intractable for existing "classical" computers.

The mathematics that underpin a number of cryptographic algorithms
are among the problems that quantum computers are believed to be able to
effectively solve. This means that a sufficiently-powerful quantum computer
(a.k.a a "cryptographically-relevant" quantum computer) will be able to break
them. Most affected is the cryptography used for key agreement and digital
signatures, both of which play important roles in SSH.

Fortunately, quantum computers of sufficient power to break cryptography
have not been invented yet. Estimates for when a cryptographically-relevant
quantum computer will arrive, based on the rate of progress in the field,
range from 5-20 years, with many observers expecting them to arrive
in the mid-2030s.

The entire privacy of an SSH connection depends on cryptographic key agreement.
If an attacker can break the key agreement then they are able to decrypt and
view the entire session. The attacker need not perform this attack in real
time; they may collect encrypted SSH sessions now and then decrypt them later
once they have access to a quantum computer.
This is referred to as a "store now, decrypt later" attack (also as
"harvest now, decrypt later").

Fortunately, improved "post-quantum" cryptographic algorithms have been devised
that rely on different underlying mathematical problems that are understood to
not be attackable by a quantum computer.

OpenSSH has supported post-quantum key agreement to prevent "store now,
decrypt later" attacks for several years and it has been the default since
OpenSSH-9.0, released in 2022.

FAQ

I received a warning from ssh that directed me to this page. What should I do?

As mentioned above, OpenSSH 10.1 started warning users when connections use
cryptography that is not safe against quantum computers. If you received such
a warning, it means that the server you connected to did not offer one of the
two post-quantum key agreement algorithms that are being standardised for the
SSH protocol:
mlkem768x25519-sha256 and
sntrup761x25519-sha512

The ideal solution is to update the server to use an SSH implementation that
supports at least one of these. OpenSSH versions 9.0 and greater support
sntrup761x25519-sha512 and versions 9.9 and greater support
mlkem768x25519-sha256. If your server is already running one of these
versions, then check whether the KexAlgorithms option has disabled
their use.

If you are unable to update the server and/or you prefer to accept the risk
of continuing to use quantum-unsafe cryptography then the warning may be
silenced via the
WarnWeakCrypto option in
ssh_config(5).
We recommend doing this selectively, for example:

Match host unsafe.example.com
    WarnWeakCrypto no-pq-kex

Quantum computers don't exist yet, why go to all this trouble?

Because of the "store now, decrypt later" attack mentioned above. Traffic
sent today is at risk of decryption unless post-quantum key agreement is used.

What about signature algorithms? You said they were at risk too

Yes, most currently-used signature algorithms (including RSA and ECDSA) can be
broken by a quantum computer. However, there is no risk to existing traffic
in this situation (i.e. there is no analogous "store now, decrypt later").
The only urgency for signature algorithms is ensuring that all classical
signature keys are retired in advance of cryptographically-relevant computers
becoming a reality. OpenSSH will add support for post-quantum signature
algorithms in the future.

I don't believe we'll ever get quantum computers. This is a waste of time

Some people consider the task of scaling existing quantum computers up to the
point where they can tackle cryptographic problems to be practically
insurmountable. This is a possibility. However, it appears that most of the
barriers to a cryptographically-relevant quantum computer are engineering
challenges rather than underlying physics.

If we're right about quantum computers being practical, then we will have
protected vast quantities of user data. If we're wrong about it, then all
we'll have done is moved to cryptographic algorithms with stronger mathematical
underpinnings.

These post-quantum algorithms are new. Are we sure they aren't broken?

We're wary of this too. Though post-quantum key agreement algorithms have
received a lot of concerted cryptographic attention over the last few years,
it's possible that new attacks might be found.

To defend against this happening we have selected post-quantum algorithms with
good safety margins. This means that even if they turn out to be weaker than
expected they are still likely to be strong enough to be considered fit for
purpose.

Additionally, all the post-quantum algorithms implemented by OpenSSH are
"hybrids" that combine a post-quantum algorithm with a classical
algorithm. For example mlkem768x25519-sha256 combines ML-KEM, a
post-quantum key agreement scheme, with ECDH/x25519, a classical key agreement
algorithm that was formerly OpenSSH's preferred default. This ensures that the
combined, hybrid algorithm is no worse than the previous best
classical algorithm, even if the post-quantum algorithm turns out to be
completely broken by future cryptanalysis.
