   AMERICAN STATISTICAL ASSOCIATION RELEASES STATEMENT ON
           STATISTICAL SIGNIFICANCE AND P-VALUES
   Provides Principles to Improve the Conduct and Interpretation of Quantitative
                                      Science
                                           March 7, 2016

The American Statistical Association (ASA) has released a “Statement on Statistical Significance
and P-Values” with six principles underlying the proper use and interpretation of the p-value
[http://amstat.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00031305.2016.1154108#.Vt2XIOaE2MN]. The ASA
releases this guidance on p-values to improve the conduct and interpretation of quantitative
science and inform the growing emphasis on reproducibility of science research. The statement
also notes that the increased quantification of scientific research and a proliferation of large,
complex data sets has expanded the scope for statistics and the importance of appropriately
chosen techniques, properly conducted analyses, and correct interpretation.
Good statistical practice is an essential component of good scientific practice, the statement
observes, and such practice “emphasizes principles of good study design and conduct, a variety
of numerical and graphical summaries of data, understanding of the phenomenon under study,
interpretation of results in context, complete reporting and proper logical and quantitative
understanding of what data summaries mean.”
“The p-value was never intended to be a substitute for scientific reasoning,” said Ron
Wasserstein, the ASA’s executive director. “Well-reasoned statistical arguments contain much
more than the value of a single number and whether that number exceeds an arbitrary
threshold. The ASA statement is intended to steer research into a ‘post p<0.05 era.’”
“Over time it appears the p-value has become a gatekeeper for whether work is publishable, at
least in some fields,” said Jessica Utts, ASA president. “This apparent editorial bias leads to the
‘file-drawer effect,’ in which research with statistically significant outcomes are much more
likely to get published, while other work that might well be just as important scientifically is
never seen in print. It also leads to practices called by such names as ‘p-hacking’ and ‘data
dredging’ that emphasize the search for small p-values over other statistical and scientific
reasoning.”
The statement’s six principles, many of which address misconceptions and misuse of the p-
value, are the following:
   1. P-values can indicate how incompatible the data are with a specified statistical model.
   2. P-values do not measure the probability that the studied hypothesis is true, or the
      probability that the data were produced by random chance alone.
   3. Scientific conclusions and business or policy decisions should not be based only on
      whether a p-value passes a specific threshold.
   4. Proper inference requires full reporting and transparency.
   5. A p-value, or statistical significance, does not measure the size of an effect or the
      importance of a result.
   6. By itself, a p-value does not provide a good measure of evidence regarding a model or
      hypothesis.
The statement has short paragraphs elaborating on each principle.
In light of misuses of and misconceptions concerning p-values, the statement notes that
