SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/03/nvidia-confirms-it-will-buy-hugging-face-for-12-9-billion/


 Nvidia confirms it will buy Hugging Face for $12.9 billion | TechCrunch
 –:–:–:– 
Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2. Book Exhibit Table Now.
Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE.
 Close
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Disrupt 2026
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
Search
Submit
 Site Search Toggle
 Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits:Jaque Silva/NurPhoto / Getty Images 
 AI 
Nvidia confirms it will buy Hugging Face for $12.9 billion 
 Ivan Mehta
5:42 AM PDT · September 3, 2026 
After weeks of swirling rumors, Nvidia confirmed today that it has acquired Hugging Face for $12.93 billion. Hugging Face’s platform hosts three million models, one million applications used by over 18 million developers, and half a million datasets.
In a blog post, Nvidia’s CEO Jensen Huang said that Hugging Face will continue to support open source and open-weight models and will work on expanding developer access.
“Hugging Face will remain an open platform for the entire AI ecosystem. Developers will choose the models they want, the frameworks they want, the clouds and inference service providers they want and the computing platforms they want. Nvidia compute will not be required to build on or deploy through Hugging Face,” said Huang.
Huang touted Nvidia’s contributions and said that the chip company has released more than 500 models and 250 open datasets on Hugging Face. He argued that the company builds open models to get developers across the world to use them.
For a company like Nvidia, which is a dominant hardware platform for AI development and inference, an open ecosystem that it controls is beneficial as it can create a platform suited for its chips. Plus, as TechCrunch wrote earlier, Nvidia will be able to sell its unused capacity to enterprise customers packaged with Hugging Face’s offering.
Hugging Face was founded in 2016 and has raised over $395 million in funding to date, according to Crunchbase. The company’s last round was in 2023, when it raised $235 million led by Salesforce Ventures, with investments from Google, Amazon, IBM, and Nvidia.
In a post on X, Hugging Face CEO Clem Delangue thanked the community for showing the company could be an alternative to closed-source APIs.
“But for it to happen at [a] larger scale, it needs more compute, more support, more collaboration, and more visibility. That’s why we went to talk to Jensen, who offered to do exactly that with us,” said Delangue.
Hugging Face has risen in prominence, with more models being released every day. Last year, the company rejected a $500 million deal from Nvidia, according to Financial Times. Last month, The Information reported that Hugging Face is clocking $150 million in annualized revenue.
In an interview with TechCrunch in July, Delangue said that its growth rate is helping the platform to get “close to profitability.”
Nvidia’s Huang has been a strong proponent of open models. He wrote a letter, co-signed by several other organizations, to advocate for open-weight models to strengthen the U.S.’s position against rivals like China in the AI sector.
The company is heavily investing in model development. Last month, The Wall Street Journal reported that it struck a $6 billion deal with coding startup Poolside to develop open models. During its recent earnings call, the company said it has infused over $50 billion into AI frontier labs.
Huang pitched open models while answering one of the analysts and said that almost all open models run on Nvidia hardware. He also signaled the importance of these models in cybersecurity. 
“One of the areas where frontier models are vital is cybersecurity. You see the number of cybersecurity companies that are enabled by frontier models so that they could have massively distributed, continuously running autonomous cybersecurity systems to defend. Those companies are emerging. There are some amazing companies. They couldn’t do it without open models. And so open models is both incredibly successful and have finally reached the frontier, but they’re also vital to the American economy. It’s vital to the world economy,” he said. 
In July, Delangue said that Nvidia’s open model helped Hugging Face defend against cyberattacks after proprietary models failed to protect the platform. Days before that, OpenAI admitted that its unreleased model breached Hugging Face.
Topics
 AI, Hugging Face, Jensen Huang, Mergers and Acquisitions, nvidia 
When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.
 Ivan Mehta 
Ivan covers global consumer tech developments at TechCrunch. He is based out of India and has previously worked at publications including Huffington Post and The Next Web.
You can contact or verify outreach from Ivan by emailing im@ivanmehta.com or via encrypted message at ivan.42 on Signal. 
 View Bio 
October 13 – 15
San Francisco
Get 50% off a second pass
The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
BOOK NOW
Most Popular
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B
Tim Fernholz
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation
Sarah Perez
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers
Kirsten Korosec
 Unsecured OpenAI agents posted 53 user images on the internet without the lab’s knowledge
Tim Fernholz
 Astra and Opus just passed Turing’s other test
Tim Fernholz
 Kiteworks urges customers to shut down their servers amid ‘imminent’ threat of cyberattack
Zack Whittaker
 Oracle sends force majeure notice on its New Mexico Stargate data center
Aditya Mehta
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
OpenAI
Hugging Face
Flock
Startup Battlefield
Disrupt 2026
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
