SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/08/24/hugging-face-reportedly-in-talks-to-be-acquired-for-13b/

 
 Hugging Face reportedly in talks to be acquired for $13B | TechCrunch 
 –:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
 Latest 
 Startups 
 Venture 
 Apple 
 Security 
 AI 
 Apps 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Events 
 Podcasts 
 Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: Jaque Silva/NurPhoto / Getty Images 
 AI 
 Hugging Face reportedly in talks to be acquired for $13B
 Rebecca Bellan 
 6:47 AM PDT · August 24, 2026 
 Hugging Face has been approached to sell at a valuation of $13 billion or more, Business Insider reported over the weekend. 
 The startup’s platform and open source community is where developers and researchers share, find, test, and deploy AI models. Hugging Face was recently the target of an attack from one of OpenAI’s systems, which broke out of its sandbox during a cybersecurity evaluation and breached the startup’s servers. 
 It’s not clear who Hugging Face has been in talks with, and no deal has yet been reached, according to Business Insider. However, the startup has reportedly been talking to banks to help evaluate bids. 
 The talks come amid increased interest in companies providing core AI infrastructure services, as evidenced by Stripe’s $7 billion acquisition of OpenRouter . 
 Hugging Face last raised in 2023 at a $4.5 billion post-money valuation in a round led by Salesforce Ventures, with participation from Alphabet, GV, IBM Ventures, and others. 
 On a recent episode of the TechCrunch Equity podcast , Hugging Face CEO Clem Delangue said that the company was “close to profitability” and only “recently started to touch the money that [it] raised three years ago,” adding that the startup is thinking about how to optimize for “long-term sustainability of the company rather than short-term profits or fundraising maximization.”
 “We’re more in a unique position where we can keep creating value for the community and for AI builders,” he said.
 The way Delangue has discussed the company’s responsibility to the Hugging Face community raises questions over whether the startup is truly considering selling or is simply fielding offers for what has become a central pillar in AI infrastructure. 
 “We’re building a platform for the community, and they’re trusting us with sharing their data and their models on the platform, so we have a long-term responsibility to them,” Delangue said on Equity. 
 More to the point, the company earlier this year turned down a $500 million investment from Nvidia that would have valued it at $7 billion, saying at the time that it didn’t want a single dominant investor to sway decisions.  
 TechCrunch has reached out to Hugging Face for more information.
 Loading the player…
 Topics
 AI , Hugging Face , Mergers and Acquisitions , open source , Venture 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Rebecca Bellan 
 Senior Reporter 
 Rebecca Bellan is a senior reporter at TechCrunch where she covers the business, policy, and emerging trends shaping artificial intelligence. Her work has also appeared in Forbes, Bloomberg, The Atlantic, The Daily Beast, and other publications. 
 You can contact or verify outreach from Rebecca by emailing rebecca.bellan@techcrunch.com or via encrypted message at rebeccabellan.491 on Signal.
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
 Lucas Ropek 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
 Dominic-Madori Davis 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
 Lucas Ropek 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
 Sarah Perez 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
 Kirsten Korosec 
 Astra and Opus just passed Turing’s other test 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Facebook 
 Instagram 
 youTube 
 Mastodon 
 Threads 
 Bluesky 
 TechCrunch 
 Staff 
 Contact Us 
 Advertise 
 Site Map 
 Terms of Service 
 Privacy Policy 
 RSS Terms of Use 
 Code of Conduct 
 OpenAI 
 Hugging Face 
 Flock 
 Startup Battlefield 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Tech Layoffs 
 ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
