SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/08/21/nvidia-just-showed-that-the-harness-not-the-ai-model-is-now-the-real-hero/

 
 Nvidia just showed that the harness, not the AI model, is now the real hero | TechCrunch 
 –:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
 Latest 
 Startups 
 Venture 
 Apple 
 Security 
 AI 
 Apps 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Events 
 Podcasts 
 Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: Nvidia 
 AI 
 Nvidia just showed that the harness, not the AI model, is now the real hero
 Julie Bort 
 12:43 PM PDT · August 21, 2026 
 Nvidia published some interesting new research on Friday suggesting it’s the harness, more than the underlying model, that is far more important when asking an AI to do long-horizon tasks. A harness is the software wrapper around an AI model — the tools, memory management, and rules that turn a raw model into something that can act on its own.
 The TL;DR: Simply by using a custom harness tweaked to handle memory well and including a “supervisor” boss-like component, researchers got Claude Opus 5 to achieve a 100% score on the interactive reasoning benchmark ARC-AGI-3 — a set of 2D games with no instructions, where the model has to figure out how to play and win, similar to how a human would. (That’s a benchmark that has particularly irked rival frontier lab OpenAI.) Without the harness, Opus 5 scored 30%, which was the top result among all the models tested.
 Nvidia’s research is another indicator that, while model choice does matter, the model itself — the part that acts as the agent’s “brain” — is a smaller part of an agentic system than many AI users realize, especially for long-horizon tasks. The harness is what makes a model an agent: It handles memory, context, and feedback.
 “Generally speaking, the world interprets an agent almost as an API of the model,” Adel El Hallak, vice president of product in Nvidia’s AI unit (pictured above), tells TechCrunch. But an agent is actually more than that. “It is the model. It is the scaffolding around the model, which we call the harness, i.e. the set of tools that it utilizes. It is the runtime and the associated skills and libraries that we give it access to.”
 Long-horizon tasks are those that require stringing many decisions together, sometimes over days, to produce completed work. This is in contrast to an AI just spitting out a response to a prompt. Figuring out how to get an AI to do long-horizon tasks without getting distracted and going off in la-la land is one of the holy grails in agentic research.
 For example: Microsoft published research in April that tested 19 LLMs on long-horizon tasks involving document editing and discovered that all the models, including frontier ones, filled the documents with errors. (If humans produced work like that, they would be promptly fired.)
 Models stringing decisions together on their own have also been caught deleting their users’ files or even whole databases or turning to criminal behavior , from collusion to hacking , to achieve their objectives. 
 The choice by Nvidia researchers to use this interactive reasoning benchmark for their tests is particularly meaningful, almost funny. A 100% score means that the model can beat the games as well as humans.
 OpenAI was so flustered by its models’ abysmal scores (less than 10%) on ARC-AGI-3 that it conducted its own research last month. Like Nvidia, OpenAI discovered that simply by tweaking two settings on the harness, its models tripled their scores.
 But none of the models came close to hitting a 100% score, like Nvidia’s researchers achieved. They showed that the harness needs a “supervisor” component that prods the agent in the right direction if it gets stuck.
 “The more interesting part was introducing a supervising agent in addition to your main agent that’s doing the work,” El Hallak said. It “almost acts like a CEO to nudge the agent when it goes off direction or starts exploring a path that it might lead to a dead end, or re-explore a path that it had previously trod.”
 While the concept of the supervising agent isn’t exactly new, today most agent users are relying on only one layer for their harness, like Claude Code, Codex, or Hermes. Nvidia researchers created their own souped-up harness called the Agentic Variation Operators (AVO) .
 Note that this isn’t a new Nvidia product. Nvidia instead produces lots of open bits and pieces of tech for building harnesses under the Nemo brand. Some of that tech is commercial, while much is openly available.
 Still, Nvidia’s results add to the growing evidence that model choice is far from the only factor in agentic performance. In July, for instance, Databricks published some stunning research that shows that the harness, more than the model, dramatically impacts AI costs.
 “You can pick the same model but different harnesses, and you get significantly more cost if you use the wrong harness,” Databricks CEO Ali Ghodsi told TechCrunch. “So you think, oh, this is an expensive model. This is a cheap model. But wait, which harness are you using? That itself can 2x your cost.”
 Nvidia’s larger point is to show that open harnesses, like open models, put users in control far more than they realize.
 “We believe, and we’re demonstrating with the ecosystem, how open harnesses allow you to turn a lot more knobs to drive up that accuracy,” El Hallak said. “It relates to OpenAI slowing down the training of their models,” as a result of models creating security breaches .
 “We believe in having an open agent stack — where you have control across the harness, across the infrastructure, across the runtime — is what’s required for us to usher the ecosystem forward and securely,” he added.
 Topics
 AI , Exclusive , nvidia 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Julie Bort 
 Venture Editor 
 Julie Bort is the Startups/Venture Desk editor for TechCrunch. 
You can contact or verify outreach from Julie by emailing julie.bort@techcrunch.com or via @Julie188 on X. 
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
 Google thinks SpaceX’s Starship has to launch 1,800 times before space data centers get off the ground 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
 Lucas Ropek 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
 Dominic-Madori Davis 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
 Lucas Ropek 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
 Sarah Perez 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
 Kirsten Korosec 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Facebook 
 Instagram 
 youTube 
 Mastodon 
 Threads 
 Bluesky 
 TechCrunch 
 Staff 
 Contact Us 
 Advertise 
 Site Map 
 Terms of Service 
 Privacy Policy 
 RSS Terms of Use 
 Code of Conduct 
 OpenAI 
 Hugging Face 
 Flock 
 Startup Battlefield 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Tech Layoffs 
 ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
