SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/08/19/stripe-didnt-really-buy-openrouter-because-of-the-singularity/

 
 Stripe didn't really buy OpenRouter because of the 'singularity' | TechCrunch 
 –:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
 Latest 
 Startups 
 Venture 
 Apple 
 Security 
 AI 
 Apps 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Events 
 Podcasts 
 Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: Matthias Oesterle/Corbis / Getty Images 
 AI 
 Stripe didn’t really buy OpenRouter because of the ‘singularity’
 Julie Bort 
 4:32 PM PDT · August 19, 2026 
 Stripe confirmed on Wednesday that it was buying OpenRouter. While the company didn’t disclose the deal price, sources told the New York Times that it paid $7.5 billion.
 That’s a huge step up from OpenRouter’s $1.3 billion valuation in May . To put that price into context, the founders alone will reportedly receive $1.5 billion from the sale — more than the startup’s entire valuation just three months ago. Investors will get the remaining $6 billion, according to the NYT. Stripe reportedly had to outbid others interested in the fast-growing startup, including Databricks. 
 But the question is: What does a payments giant want with a startup that routes prompts between different AI models?
 The short and funny answer, according to a leaked letter from Stripe’s founders to its investors about the deal, is this: the singularity.
 “It’s a fuzzy and perhaps already overworked term but we decided that January 1 marked the beginning of the singularity and we’ve been operating on that basis,” they wrote in the letter, published by Eric Newcomer and verified by TechCrunch.
 The singularity is supposed to mean the point at which humans and the tech we’ve created merge to become a new species. This is obviously a tongue-in-cheek reference (as Patrick Collison admitted when using the term at his company’s conference in April). We’re fairly certain Stripe’s founders, the brothers Patrick and John Collison, don’t think humanity started turning into The Borg eight months ago.
 But they have referred to the economic uptick that AI is bringing to Stripe. With AI, more companies are being launched and more of them are using Stripe’s offerings. Stripe says that 88% of the Forbes AI 50 are using its products, including OpenAI and Anthropic, as do 100% of Brex’s fastest-growing startups. No one knows how AI and agents will change the economy of the future, but everyone is certain it will change it dramatically.
 That still doesn’t explain why Stripe wants a company mostly known for helping developers manage their model usage. Stripe’s founders acknowledged that their customer bases overlap.
 “OpenRouter is exceptionally useful for any developer and Stripe is one of the world’s largest developer platforms,” the founders write in their letter. No doubt that just using OpenRouter internally will probably offer significant benefits to Stripe and make it easier to roll out future model-agnostic agentic offerings, too.
 It seems as if OpenRouter will continue to operate independently after the deal closes in a few weeks, or so the startup promised in its own blog post , saying that its “product, mission, and current commitments remain unchanged.”
 Still, until now, most of Stripe’s large acquisitions have been related to helping people collect and manage incoming cash. Buying OpenRouter looks like a move to the other side of the ledger, too: expense management, beginning with AI expenses.
 This acquisition “is Stripe’s deliberate attempt to embed itself into the middle of capital flows in the AI era,” said PitchBook’s research analyst Franco Granda.
 It’s joining an unusual assortment of companies also entering token expense management. Databricks developed its own AI gateway . Rippling just launched one focused on employee AI spend and ROI . Ramp just launched one, also for AI expense management . And the list goes on.
 For Stripe, buying the granddaddy of popular AI gateways for developers gives it insight into how coders are using AI. But it also gains a lever on AI demand itself. OpenRouter will grant it “some degree of power over suppliers such as the frontier labs themselves, as well as hyperscalers and neoclouds,” Granda said.
 It may not be the Borg, but payments plus token expense management and a model router? That’s a lot of power.
 Topics
 AI , openrouter , stripe 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Julie Bort 
 Venture Editor 
 Julie Bort is the Startups/Venture Desk editor for TechCrunch. 
You can contact or verify outreach from Julie by emailing julie.bort@techcrunch.com or via @Julie188 on X. 
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
 Google thinks SpaceX’s Starship has to launch 1,800 times before space data centers get off the ground 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
 Lucas Ropek 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
 Dominic-Madori Davis 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
 Lucas Ropek 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
 Sarah Perez 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
 Kirsten Korosec 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Facebook 
 Instagram 
 youTube 
 Mastodon 
 Threads 
 Bluesky 
 TechCrunch 
 Staff 
 Contact Us 
 Advertise 
 Site Map 
 Terms of Service 
 Privacy Policy 
 RSS Terms of Use 
 Code of Conduct 
 OpenAI 
 Hugging Face 
 Flock 
 Startup Battlefield 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Tech Layoffs 
 ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
