NOTICE: This arXiv version is an extended version of our paper that has been published in IEEE Micro Journal.

AI and Memory Wall
Amir Gholami1,2 Zhewei Yao1 Sehoon Kim1 Coleman Hooper1 Michael W. Mahoney1,2,3 Kurt Keutzer1
University of California, Berkeley

Abstract—The availability of unprecedented unsupervised
training data, along with neural scaling laws, has resulted in an
unprecedented surge in model size and compute requirements
for serving/training LLMs. However, the main performance
bottleneck is increasingly shifting to memory bandwidth. Over
the past 20 years, peak server hardware FLOPS has been scaling
3

LBNL

Scaling of Peak hardware FLOPS, and Memory/Interconnect Bandwidth

HW FLOPS: 60000x / 20 yrs (3.0x/2yrs)
100x / 20 yrs (1.6x/2yrs)
DRAM BW:
Interconnect BW: 30x / 20 yrs (1.4x/2yrs)

1000000
(b)

Fig. 2: (a) The evolution of the number of parameters of state-of-the-art (SOTA) models over the years, along with the AI
accelerator memory capacity (green dots). The number of parameters in large Transformer models has been exponentially
increasing with a factor of 410× every two years, while the single GPU memory has only been scaled at a rate of 2× every 2
years. The growth rate for the Transformer models is calculated by only considering the non-recommendation system models
(red circles), and the GPU memory is plotted by dividing the corresponding memory size by 6 as an approximate upper bound
for the largest model that can be trained with the corresponding capacity. (b) The amount of compute, measured in Peta
FLOPs, needed to train SOTA models, for different computer vision (CV), natural language processing (NLP), and Speech
models, along with the different scaling of Transformer models (750×/2yrs).2
the communication bottleneck of moving data between neural
network (NN) accelerators, which is even slower and less
efficient than on-chip data movement. Similar to the single
system memory case, we have not been able to overcome the
technological challenges to scale the network bandwidth.
Second, even when the model fits within a single chip,
intra-chip memory transfers from/to registers, L2 cache, global
memory, etc. are still increasingly becoming the bottleneck.
Thanks to the recent advancements in specialized compute
units, such as Tensor cores, the arithmetic operations for a
large set of computations can finish in a few cycles. Therefore,
to keep these arithmetic units utilized at all times one needs
to rapidly feed them large amounts of data, and that is where
the chip memory bandwidth becomes the bottleneck.
As one can see in Figure 1, over the past 20 years,
peak server hardware FLOPS has been scaling at 3.0×/2yrs,
outpacing the growth of DRAM and interconnect bandwidth,
which have only scaled at 1.6 and 1.4 times every 2 years,
respectively. This disparity has made memory, rather than
compute, increasingly become a bottleneck, even for cases
when the model can fit within a single chip.
Next, we perform a detailed case study for Transformers
