
Parameters
(26GB, 65%)

KV
Cache
(>30%)

Others
NVIDIA A100 40GB

Memory usage (GB)

Existing systems

High throughput serving of large language models (LLMs)
requires batching sufficiently many requests at a time. However, existing systems struggle because the key-value cache
(KV cache) memory for each request is huge and grows
and shrinks dynamically. When managed inefficiently, this
memory can be significantly wasted by fragmentation and
redundant duplication, limiting the batch size. To address
this problem, we propose PagedAttention, an attention algorithm inspired by the classical virtual memory and paging techniques in operating systems. On top of it, we build
vLLM, an LLM serving system that achieves (1) near-zero
waste in KV cache memory and (2) flexible sharing of KV
cache within and across requests to further reduce memory usage. Our evaluations show that vLLM improves the
throughput of popular LLMs by 2-4× with the same level
of latency compared to the state-of-the-art systems, such
as FasterTransformer and Orca. The improvement is more
pronounced with longer sequences, larger models, and more
complex decoding algorithms. vLLM’s source code is publicly
available at https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm.

vLLM

Figure 2. Average percentage of memory wastes in different
LLM serving systems during the experiment in §6.2.
percentage of memory is used for other data, including activations – the ephemeral tensors created when evaluating
the LLM. Since the model weights are constant and the activations only occupy a small fraction of the GPU memory,
the way the KV cache is managed is critical in determining
the maximum batch size. When managed inefficiently, the
KV cache memory can significantly limit the batch size and
consequently the throughput of the LLM, as illustrated in
Fig. 1 (right).
In this paper, we observe that existing LLM serving systems [31, 60] fall short of managing the KV cache memory
efficiently. This is mainly because they store the KV cache of
a request in contiguous memory space, as most deep learning
frameworks [33, 39] require tensors to be stored in contiguous memory. However, unlike the tensors in the traditional
deep learning workloads, the KV cache has unique characteristics: it dynamically grows and shrinks over time as the
model generates new tokens, and its lifetime and length are
not known a priori. These characteristics make the existing
systems’ approach significantly inefficient in two ways:
First, the existing systems [31, 60] suffer from internal and
external memory fragmentation. To store the KV cache of
a request in contiguous space, they pre-allocate a contiguous chunk of memory with the request’s maximum length
(e.g., 2048 tokens). This can result in severe internal fragmentation, since the request’s actual length can be much
shorter than its maximum length (e.g., Fig. 11). Moreover,
even if the actual length is known a priori, the pre-allocation
is still inefficient: As the entire chunk is reserved during the
request’s lifetime, other shorter requests cannot utilize any
part of the chunk that is currently unused. Besides, external
memory fragmentation can also be significant, since the preallocated size can be different for each request. Indeed, our
profiling results in Fig. 2 show that only 20.4% - 38.2% of the
KV cache memory is used to store the actual token states in
the existing systems.
Second, the existing systems cannot exploit the opportunities for memory sharing. LLM services often use advanced

2

KV cache across more positions in parallel, thus increasing
the hardware utilization and reducing latency. However, a
larger block size also increases memory fragmentation. We
study the effect of block size in §7.2.
Again, vLLM dynamically assigns new physical blocks to
logical blocks as more tokens and their KV cache are generated. As all the blocks are filled from left to right and a new
physical block is only allocated when all previous blocks
are full, vLLM limits all the memory wastes for a request
within one block, so it can effectively utilize all the memory,
as shown in Fig. 2. This allows more requests to fit into memory for batching—hence improving the throughput. Once a
request finishes its generation, its KV blocks can be freed to
Impact of Block Size

The choice of block size can have a substantial impact on the
performance of vLLM. If the block size is too small, vLLM
may not fully utilize the GPU’s parallelism for reading and
processing KV cache. If the block size is too large, internal fragmentation increases and the probability of sharing
decreases.
In Fig. 18b, we evaluate the performance of vLLM with different block sizes, using the ShareGPT and Alpaca traces with
basic sampling under fixed request rates. In the ShareGPT
trace, block sizes from 16 to 128 lead to the best performance.
In the Alpaca trace, while the block size 16 and 32 work
well, larger block sizes significantly degrade the performance
since the sequences become shorter than the block sizes. In
practice, we find that the block size 16 is large enough to
efficiently utilize the GPU and small enough to avoid significant internal fragmentation in most workloads. Accordingly,
vLLM sets its default block size as 16.
