objectives, we carry out a detailed design space exploration of highbandwidth DRAM microarchitectures. Using constraints imposed
by practical DRAM layouts and insights from GPU memory access behaviors to inform the design process, we arrive at a DRAM
and memory controller architecture, Fine-grained DRAM (FGDRAM),
suited to future high-bandwidth GPUs.
The most formidable challenge to scaling the bandwidth of GPU
DRAMs is the energy of DRAM accesses. Every system is designed
to operate within a fixed maximum power envelope. The energy
spent on DRAM access eats into the total power budget available
for the rest of the system. Traditionally, high-end GPU cards have
been limited to approximately 300W, of which no more than about
20% is budgeted to the DRAM when operating at peak bandwidth.

per access energy [pJ/bit]

MICRO-50, October 14–18, 2017, Cambridge, MA, USA

M. O’Connor et al.

30
25
20

GDDR5

15
14.0pJ/bit

10

HBM2

5
3.9pJ/bit

0 192

256GB/s

1.9TB/s

536GB/s

512GB/s

1 TB/s

21920
TB/s

4 TB/s

memory system bandwidth
(a) Maximum DRAM access energy for given peak bandwidth within

60W DRAM power budget
Activation

On-die Data Movement

I/O

HBM2
0

1

2

(pJ/b)

3

(b) HBM2 energy consumption

Figure 1: GPU Memory Power and Energy
Figure 1a shows the DRAM energy per access that can be tolerated
at a given peak DRAM bandwidth while remaining within a 60W
DRAM power budget. We see that the energy improvements of ondie stacked High Bandwidth Memory (HBM2) over off-chip GDDR5
memories have allowed modern GPUs to approach a terabyte-persecond of memory bandwidth at comparable power to previous
GPUs that provided less than half the bandwidth using GDDR5. This
figure also demonstrates, however, that even with HBM2, systems
with more than 2 TB/s of bandwidth won’t be possible within this
traditional power budget. A future exascale GPU with 4 TB/s of
DRAM bandwidth would dissipate upwards of 120 W of DRAM
power.
The energy to access a bit in HBM2 is approximately 3.97 pJ/bit,
and, as shown in Figure 1b, it consists largely of data movement
energy (the energy to move data from the row buffer to the I/O
pins) and activation energy (the energy to precharge a bank and
activate a row of cells into the row-buffer); the I/O energy accounts
for the small remainder. The activation energy is a function of
the row size and the row locality of the memory access stream,
and it is a significant factor because most GPU workloads access
only a small fraction of the 1KB row activated in HBM2. The data
movement energy is determined primarily by the distance that
the data moves on both the DRAM die and the base layer die to

to low row-access locality arising from irregular accesses and/or
row-buffer interference between the thousands of concurrently executing threads. However, as shown in Figure 1b, the movement of
data from the sense-amplifiers to the DRAM I/Os is another more
significant contributor to overall energy. Figure 2 shows that in a
stacked DRAM, the data first travels on the DRAM die from the
bank’s sense-amplifier to the central stripe, then down to the base
layer using through-silicon vias (TSVs), and a short distance over
the base-layer to reach the I/O bumps that connect the HBM2 stack
to the GPU (approximately 9.9 mm). Using a detailed energy model
based on physical floorplan and DRAM process characteristics (Section 4) and the actual data toggle rate of different applications,
we found that switching the capacitance on this datapath requires
2.24 pJ/bit of energy on average. In contrast, transferring the data
over the I/O wires on the silicon interposer requires an additional
0.3 pJ/bit, considering actual application data toggle rates. In total,
with the average of 1.21 pJ/bit of activation energy, each HBM2 access incurs 3.92 pJ/bit of energy (including ECC overhead) which is
a major impediment to increasing the aggregate bandwidth for a
GPU.
Clearly, to reach a target 2 pJ/bit of overall energy consumption,
future high-bandwidth DRAMs must reduce internal data movement energy. Opportunities to reduce activation energy should also
be considered, as it is still a significant component of overall energy
