https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00267 | RLAIF vs. RLHF: Scaling Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback with AI Feedback | 2023-09-01
Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has proven effective in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences, but gathering high-quality preference labels is expensive. RL from AI Feedback (RLAIF), introduced in Bai et al., offers a promising alternative that trains the reward model (RM) on preferences generated by an off-the-shelf LLM. Across the tasks of summarization, helpful dialogue generation, and harmless dialogue generation, we show that RLAIF achieves comparable performance to RLHF. Furthermore, we take a step towards "self-improvement" by demonstrating that RLAIF can outperform a supervised fine-tuned baseline even when the AI labeler is the same size as the policy, or even the exact same checkpoint as the initial policy. Finally, we introduce direct-RLAIF (d-RLAIF) - a technique that circumvents RM training by obtaining rewards directly from an off-the-shelf LLM during RL, which achieves superior performance to canonical RLAIF. Our results suggest that RLAIF can achieve performance on-par with using human feedback, offering a potential solution to the scalability limitations of RLHF.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16339 | Deliberative Alignment: Reasoning Enables Safer Language Models | 2024-12-20
As large-scale language models increasingly impact safety-critical domains, ensuring their reliable adherence to well-defined principles remains a fundamental challenge. We introduce Deliberative Alignment, a new paradigm that directly teaches the model safety specifications and trains it to explicitly recall and accurately reason over the specifications before answering. We used this approach to align OpenAI's o-series models, and achieved highly precise adherence to OpenAI's safety policies, without requiring human-written chain-of-thoughts or answers. Deliberative Alignment pushes the Pareto frontier by simultaneously increasing robustness to jailbreaks while decreasing overrefusal rates, and also improves out-of-distribution generalization. We demonstrate that reasoning over explicitly specified policies enables more scalable, trustworthy, and interpretable alignment.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17651 | Self-Refine: Iterative Refinement with Self-Feedback | 2023-03-30
Like humans, large language models (LLMs) do not always generate the best output on their first try. Motivated by how humans refine their written text, we introduce Self-Refine, an approach for improving initial outputs from LLMs through iterative feedback and refinement. The main idea is to generate an initial output using an LLMs; then, the same LLMs provides feedback for its output and uses it to refine itself, iteratively. Self-Refine does not require any supervised training data, additional training, or reinforcement learning, and instead uses a single LLM as the generator, refiner, and feedback provider. We evaluate Self-Refine across 7 diverse tasks, ranging from dialog response generation to mathematical reasoning, using state-of-the-art (GPT-3.5, ChatGPT, and GPT-4) LLMs. Across all evaluated tasks, outputs generated with Self-Refine are preferred by humans and automatic metrics over those generated with the same LLM using conventional one-step generation, improving by ~20% absolute on average in task performance. Our work demonstrates that even state-of-the-art LLMs like GPT-4 can be further improved at test time using our simple, standalone approach.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10020 | Self-Rewarding Language Models | 2024-01-18
We posit that to achieve superhuman agents, future models require superhuman feedback in order to provide an adequate training signal. Current approaches commonly train reward models from human preferences, which may then be bottlenecked by human performance level, and secondly these separate frozen reward models cannot then learn to improve during LLM training. In this work, we study Self-Rewarding Language Models, where the language model itself is used via LLM-as-a-Judge prompting to provide its own rewards during training. We show that during Iterative DPO training that not only does instruction following ability improve, but also the ability to provide high-quality rewards to itself. Fine-tuning Llama 2 70B on three iterations of our approach yields a model that outperforms many existing systems on the AlpacaEval 2.0 leaderboard, including Claude 2, Gemini Pro, and GPT-4 0613. While there is much left still to explore, this work opens the door to the possibility of models that can continually improve in both axes.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18837 | Constitutional Classifiers: Defending against Universal Jailbreaks across Thousands of Hours of Red Teaming | 2025-01-31
Large language models (LLMs) are vulnerable to universal jailbreaks-prompting strategies that systematically bypass model safeguards and enable users to carry out harmful processes that require many model interactions, like manufacturing illegal substances at scale. To defend against these attacks, we introduce Constitutional Classifiers: safeguards trained on synthetic data, generated by prompting LLMs with natural language rules (i.e., a constitution) specifying permitted and restricted content. In over 3,000 estimated hours of red teaming, no red teamer found a universal jailbreak that could extract information from an early classifier-guarded LLM at a similar level of detail to an unguarded model across most target queries. On automated evaluations, enhanced classifiers demonstrated robust defense against held-out domain-specific jailbreaks. These classifiers also maintain deployment viability, with an absolute 0.38% increase in production-traffic refusals and a 23.7% inference overhead. Our work demonstrates that defending against universal jailbreaks while maintaining practical deployment viability is tractable.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.10760 | Scaling Laws for Reward Model Overoptimization | 2022-10-19
In reinforcement learning from human feedback, it is common to optimize against a reward model trained to predict human preferences. Because the reward model is an imperfect proxy, optimizing its value too much can hinder ground truth performance, in accordance with Goodhart's law. This effect has been frequently observed, but not carefully measured due to the expense of collecting human preference data. In this work, we use a synthetic setup in which a fixed "gold-standard" reward model plays the role of humans, providing labels used to train a proxy reward model. We study how the gold reward model score changes as we optimize against the proxy reward model using either reinforcement learning or best-of-$n$ sampling. We find that this relationship follows a different functional form depending on the method of optimization, and that in both cases its coefficients scale smoothly with the number of reward model parameters. We also study the effect on this relationship of the size of the reward model dataset, the number of reward model and policy parameters, and the coefficient of the KL penalty added to the reward in the reinforcement learning setup. We explore the implications of these empirical results for theoretical considerations in AI alignment.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.05221 | Language Models (Mostly) Know What They Know | 2022-07-11
We study whether language models can evaluate the validity of their own claims and predict which questions they will be able to answer correctly. We first show that larger models are well-calibrated on diverse multiple choice and true/false questions when they are provided in the right format. Thus we can approach self-evaluation on open-ended sampling tasks by asking models to first propose answers, and then to evaluate the probability "P(True)" that their answers are correct. We find encouraging performance, calibration, and scaling for P(True) on a diverse array of tasks. Performance at self-evaluation further improves when we allow models to consider many of their own samples before predicting the validity of one specific possibility. Next, we investigate whether models can be trained to predict "P(IK)", the probability that "I know" the answer to a question, without reference to any particular proposed answer. Models perform well at predicting P(IK) and partially generalize across tasks, though they struggle with calibration of P(IK) on new tasks. The predicted P(IK) probabilities also increase appropriately in the presence of relevant source materials in the context, and in the presence of hints towards the solution of mathematical word problems. We hope these observations lay the groundwork for training more honest models, and for investigating how honesty generalizes to cases where models are trained on objectives other than the imitation of human writing.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.05862 | Training a Helpful and Harmless Assistant with Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback | 2022-04-12
We apply preference modeling and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) to finetune language models to act as helpful and harmless assistants. We find this alignment training improves performance on almost all NLP evaluations, and is fully compatible with training for specialized skills such as python coding and summarization. We explore an iterated online mode of training, where preference models and RL policies are updated on a weekly cadence with fresh human feedback data, efficiently improving our datasets and models. Finally, we investigate the robustness of RLHF training, and identify a roughly linear relation between the RL reward and the square root of the KL divergence between the policy and its initialization. Alongside our main results, we perform peripheral analyses on calibration, competing objectives, and the use of OOD detection, compare our models with human writers, and provide samples from our models using prompts appearing in recent related work.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13798 | Specific versus General Principles for Constitutional AI | 2023-10-20
Human feedback can prevent overtly harmful utterances in conversational models, but may not automatically mitigate subtle problematic behaviors such as a stated desire for self-preservation or power. Constitutional AI offers an alternative, replacing human feedback with feedback from AI models conditioned only on a list of written principles. We find this approach effectively prevents the expression of such behaviors. The success of simple principles motivates us to ask: can models learn general ethical behaviors from only a single written principle? To test this, we run experiments using a principle roughly stated as "do what's best for humanity". We find that the largest dialogue models can generalize from this short constitution, resulting in harmless assistants with no stated interest in specific motivations like power. A general principle may thus partially avoid the need for a long list of constitutions targeting potentially harmful behaviors. However, more detailed constitutions still improve fine-grained control over specific types of harms. This suggests both general and specific principles have value for steering AI safely.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07896 | Suppressing Pink Elephants with Direct Principle Feedback | 2024-02-12
Existing methods for controlling language models, such as RLHF and Constitutional AI, involve determining which LLM behaviors are desirable and training them into a language model. However, in many cases, it is desirable for LLMs to be controllable at inference time, so that they can be used in multiple contexts with diverse needs. We illustrate this with the Pink Elephant Problem: instructing an LLM to avoid discussing a certain entity (a ``Pink Elephant''), and instead discuss a preferred entity (``Grey Elephant''). We apply a novel simplification of Constitutional AI, Direct Principle Feedback, which skips the ranking of responses and uses DPO directly on critiques and revisions. Our results show that after DPF fine-tuning on our synthetic Pink Elephants dataset, our 13B fine-tuned LLaMA 2 model significantly outperforms Llama-2-13B-Chat and a prompted baseline, and performs as well as GPT-4 in on our curated test set assessing the Pink Elephant Problem.

