SOURCE: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/big-data/aws-and-ducklabs-building-the-future-of-analytics-together/
FETCHED: 2026-10-02 HTTP 200

AWS and DuckLabs: Building the future of analytics together | AWS Big Data Blog 
 Skip to Main Content 
 Filter: All 
 English 
 Contact us 
 AWS Marketplace 
 Support 
 My account 
 re:Invent 
 Discover AWS 
 Products 
 Solutions 
 Pricing 
 Resources 
 Search
 Filter: All 
 Sign in to console
 Create account 
 Explore topics 
 re:Invent 2026 
 The session catalog is live. Explore what's waiting for you 
 Build & Deploy AI Agents 
 88% of agent pilots stall. Learn what the rest do differently 
 Get started 
 Sign up free, connect your coding agent, and start building 
 Data for agentic AI 
 The 7 essential data capabilities to scale agentic AI 
 Analyst Report 
 AWS named a Leader in the 2026 Gartner Magic Quadrant for SCPS 
 AI for Small Businesses 
 Solutions designed for your business. Delivered by AWS Partners 
 News & announcements 
 AWS blog 
 About AWS 
 AWS is the world's most comprehensive cloud, enabling organizations to accelerate innovation, reduce costs, and scale more efficiently
 Why AWS 
 Getting Started 
 Security 
 Compliance 
 Trust Center 
 Sustainability 
 Global Infrastructure 
 Careers 
 Featured Products 
 Analytics 
 Application Integration 
 Artificial Intelligence 
 Business Applications 
 Compute 
 Customer Experience 
 Databases 
 Developer Tools 
 End User Computing 
 Game Tech 
 Management Tools 
 Media Services 
 Migration & Modernization 
 Multicloud & Hybrid 
 Networking & Content Delivery 
 Operations 
 Security & Identity 
 Storage 
 Supply Chain 
 Browse all products 
 Transformation Hubs 
 Migrate to modernize → Modernize to unlock data → unlock data to run AI
 Migrate & Modernize 
 Clear technical debt, modernize infrastructure, and move to the cloud 
 Data & Analytics 
 Future proof your data foundation for agentic AI 
 Artificial Intelligence 
 Get production-ready AI that automates, builds, creates, decides, and engages at scale 
 Featured Products 
 Get started with one of these featured services or browse all
 Browse all products 
 Amazon Quick 
 AI-powered assistant for work with research, business insights, automation, and no-code app building 
 Transform 
 Eliminate tech debt with agentic AI to modernize legacy systems and code 
 Aurora 
 Serverless relational database service for PostgreSQL, MySQL, and DSQL 
 Amazon Bedrock 
 The end-to-end platform for building generative AI applications and agents 
 Amazon Connect Customer 
 AI-native solution for delivering exceptional experiences across customer interactions 
 EC2 
 Secure and resizable compute capacity for virtually any workload 
 What’s new 
 Explore new capabilities and the latest technologies 
 Customer success stories 
 Learn how customers around the world accelerate their cloud 
 Featured 
 By industry 
 By organization type 
 Solutions Library 
 Solutions for any organization 
 From startups to enterprises, find AWS solutions scaled to your needs. Access tailored resources, pricing models, and support levels.
 Analytics Solutions 
 Discover curated Solutions that address varied analytics use cases 
 AI Solutions 
 Discover curated Solutions that address varied artificial intelligence use cases 
 Migration & Modernization Solutions 
 Discover curated Solutions that address varied migration and modernization use cases 
 What's new 
 Explore new capabilities and the latest technologies 
 Customer success stories 
 Learn how customers around the world accelerate their cloud 
 Pricing overview & tools 
 AWS Pricing 
 Learn about pricing and plans in one place 
 AWS Pricing Calculator 
 Estimate the cost for your architecture solution 
 AWS Free Tier 
 Get free, hands-on experience with AWS products and services 
 AWS Offers 
 Explore different offer programs to gain hands-on experience 
 AWS Savings Plans 
 Flexible pricing model offering lower prices 
 Single-product pricing 
 Amazon S3 
 Amazon Bedrock 
 Amazon RDS 
 Amazon EC2 
 Amazon SageMaker 
 Browse all product pricing 
 Learn 
 Documentation 
 Get detailed technical guides and references for all AWS services and tools 
 Training & Certification 
 Build and validate your AWS cloud skills and technical expertise 
 Cloud term glossary 
 Learn more about key cloud computing concepts 
 Whitepapers 
 Expand your knowledge of the cloud with expert guides and diagrams 
 Cloud fundamentals 
 Step-by-step instructions for common AWS tasks 
 Tutorials 
 Get started with step-by-step instructions 
 Connect & Support 
 Builder Center 
 Learn, build, and connect with builders in the AWS community 
 Events and webinars 
 Connect, collaborate, and learn from AWS experts in the cloud computing community 
 Partner Network 
 Collaborate with AWS partners to grow your business 
 Marketplace 
 Find, test, buy, and deploy third-party software 
 Support 
 Access proactive guidance, issue resolution, and helpful tools 
 Professional services 
 Accelerate business transformation with expert guidance and packaged solutions 
 AWS Blogs
 Home 
 Blogs 
 Editions 
 AWS Big Data Blog 
 AWS and DuckLabs: Building the future of analytics together
 by Mai-Lan Tomsen Bukovec on 26 AUG 2026 in Analytics , Announcements , Database Permalink Comments Share 
 Today we are announcing that Amazon has signed a definitive agreement to acquire DuckLabs , the Amsterdam-based company behind the open-source analytical database DuckDB. We expect the transaction to close shortly, subject to customary closing conditions. Hannes Mühleisen and Mark Raasveldt, who created DuckDB and co-founded DuckLabs, will continue leading the team and the open-source project’s technical direction as part of AWS. The DuckDB open-source project will also continue to be driven by the DuckLabs team, remain open source under the independent Foundation (the non-profit that oversees DuckDB), and available under the MIT license as it does today (see DuckLabs blog ).
 Data has always been a core asset and differentiator for companies. That is true now more than ever, as organizations use their data to customize inference and build AI agents. For 20 years AWS has driven the frontier of data, starting with the launch of Amazon S3 to create data lakes for every business, the first cloud analytics service in Amazon EMR, the first cloud data warehouse with Amazon Redshift and the many capabilities that we have introduced with Athena, Glue ETL, etc. We continue innovating for AWS customers on the data frontier including providing Apache Iceberg capabilities directly in S3 Tables, vector storage in the data lake and our new optimized Graviton-based Redshift clusters.
 DuckDB has also been at the forefront of changing how the world works with data. Hannes and Mark started DuckDB while at Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI), the national research institute in the Netherlands that also invented Python. The founders of DuckDB realized that older databases and analytics engines like Spark focused on performance for very large data processing but didn’t have an effective way to “scale down” to smaller size data queries that form the backbone of what most customers do with SQL analytics.
 DuckDB set out to solve the problem of blazingly fast performance for the 90%+ of data queries in the world today, that often runs 1 terabyte of data or less as part of analysis and dashboarding. DuckDB’s architecture is based on that core premise of “make the everyday SQL query super fast” so DuckDB runs in-process to other applications which simplifies and speeds up data exchange with the application. DuckDB gets big performance gains from its vectorized execution because it does not require a heavy compiler to run simple statements like SELECT * FROM table . And what works for everyday queries also (unsurprisingly) works very well for agents because agents behave a lot like people when interacting with data. They poke. They experiment. They run exploratory analysis on small data sets before figuring out what they really want to do. DuckDB ends up being naturally optimized for AI agents to use. What started as an academic project is now widely adopted across data engineering, data science, analytics, and now AI agents, for its simplicity of use and raw performance. We plan to combine the superpower of DuckDB at everyday queries of a terabyte or less with the proven exabyte-plus enterprise scale of S3 and our AWS analytics services of Redshift, Athena, EMR, Glue-ETL, and SageMaker platform which power analytics across hundreds of terabytes to petabytes of data. Andy Warfield, Distinguished Engineer at AWS, talks about DuckDB and the Changing Physics of Analytics in Werner Vogel’s All Things Distributed blog.
 Our customers use DuckDB today with AWS services and tell us how much they love it for its speed and simplicity. For example, DuckDB today executes SQL directly against external files, such as Parquet, CSV, and JSON, stored locally or on cloud storage like S3 for unparalleled performance and significantly lower cost.
 David Feng, Executive Director, Scientific Computing at Allen Institute, said “The Allen Institute accelerates science for a healthier world by tackling the biggest questions in biology at a large scale, and that involves extensive analysis of large, multimodal data. We started using DuckDB to analyze terabytes of scientific data in 2025 and love it. We are storing data in S3 for realtime quality control and analysis of neurophysiology and behavior data, critical to driving the next data acquisition. Queries that took minutes now come back in less than a second, enabling completely new ways of interacting with data.” DuckDB can also run in-process to AWS Lambda functions. 
 We are excited to make DuckDB applications run best on AWS, and will continue to invest in deep integration between DuckDB and our building block services.
 We are also using DuckDB in our own AWS infrastructure. When Amazon Quick wanted to augment the performance of their custom dashboarding engine, they picked DuckDB to query data in S3 Tables. The Quick team found that the DuckDB engine scales effortlessly with the number of CPUs, and its single library can easily plug into the internal Quick control plane subsystems. Since we launched Quick in October 2025, we have processed over 2.5B queries using our custom Quick query engine with the DuckDB integrations and optimizations. These DuckDB integrations and optimizations helped Amazon Quick reduce average query latency by 30%. We are going to look at how we can integrate DuckDB’s performance and simplicity in our other AWS services across data and analytics.
 Stay tuned for more about how DuckLabs and AWS will reinvent the frontier of data together for applications, data engineers, and AI, meeting customers where they are today and giving them the benefits of DuckDB’s innovation within AWS.
 About the author
 Mai-Lan Tomsen Bukovec
 Mai-Lan Tomsen Bukovec, Technology Vice President at AWS, leads the Amazon cloud data services that millions of AWS customers rely on for digital transformations, business analytics, machine learning, generative AI, and next generation customer experiences. With over 25 years of experience in the technology industry, Mai-Lan is a pioneer in helping customers take advantage of cloud-based technologies to transform their businesses.
 Loading comments…
 Resources
 Amazon Athena 
 Amazon EMR 
 Amazon Kinesis 
 Amazon MSK 
 Amazon QuickSight 
 Amazon Redshift 
 AWS Glue 
 Follow
  Twitter 
  Facebook 
  LinkedIn 
  Twitch 
  Email Updates 
 Create an AWS account 
 Learn
 What Is AWS? 
 What Is Cloud Computing? 
 What Is Agentic AI? 
 Cloud Computing Concepts Hub 
 AWS Cloud Security 
 What's New 
 Blogs 
 Press Releases 
 Resources
 Getting Started 
 Training 
 AWS Trust Center 
 AWS Solutions Library 
 Architecture Center 
 Product and Technical FAQs 
 Analyst Reports 
 AWS Partners 
 Developers
 Builder Center 
 SDKs & Tools 
 .NET on AWS 
 Python on AWS 
 Java on AWS 
 PHP on AWS 
 JavaScript on AWS 
 Help
 Contact Us 
 File a Support Ticket 
 AWS re:Post 
 Knowledge Center 
 AWS Support Overview 
 Get Expert Help 
 AWS Accessibility 
 Legal 
 English 
 Back to top 
 Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age. 
 Privacy 
 Site terms 
 Cookie Preferences 
 © 2026, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.