SOURCE: https://www.cnbc.com/2026/08/29/openai-cursor-spacex-model-access.html
FETCHED: 2026-10-02 HTTP 200

OpenAI to end model access to Cursor after acquisition by SpaceX 
 Skip Navigation 
 Markets Pre-Markets 
 U.S. Markets 
 Europe Markets 
 China Markets 
 Asia Markets 
 World Markets 
 Currencies 
 Prediction Markets 
 Cryptocurrency 
 Futures & Commodities 
 Bonds 
 Funds & ETFs 
 Business Economy 
 Finance 
 Health & Science 
 Media 
 Real Estate 
 Energy 
 Climate 
 Transportation 
 Investigations 
 Industrials 
 Retail 
 Wealth 
 Sports 
 Life 
 Small Business 
 Investing Personal Finance 
 Fintech 
 Financial Advisors 
 Options Action 
 ETF Street 
 Buffett Archive 
 Earnings 
 Trader Talk 
 Tech Cybersecurity 
 AI 
 Enterprise 
 Internet 
 Media 
 Mobile 
 Social Media 
 CNBC Disruptor 50 
 Tech Guide 
 Politics & Policy White House 
 Policy 
 Defense 
 Congress 
 Expanding Opportunity 
 Europe Politics 
 China Politics 
 Asia Politics 
 World Politics 
 Video Latest Video 
 Full Episodes 
 Livestream 
 Top Video 
 Live Audio 
 Europe TV 
 Asia TV 
 CNBC Podcasts 
 CEO Interviews 
 Digital Originals 
 Watchlist 
 Investing Club Trust Portfolio 
 Analysis 
 Trade Alerts 
 Meeting Videos 
 Homestretch 
 Jim's Columns 
 Education 
 Subscribe 
 PRO Pro News 
 Josh Brown 
 Mike Santoli 
 Calls of the Day 
 My Portfolio 
 Livestream 
 Full Episodes 
 Stock Screener 
 Market Forecast 
 Options Investing 
 Chart Investing 
 Subscribe 
 Livestream 
 Menu 
 Make It 
 select 
 USA 
 INTL 
 Livestream 
 Search quotes, news & videos 
 Livestream 
 Watchlist 
 SIGN IN 
 Create free account 
 Markets 
 Business 
 Investing 
 Tech 
 Politics & Policy 
 Video 
 Watchlist 
 Investing Club 
 PRO 
 Livestream 
 Menu 
 Tech OpenAI to end model access to Cursor after acquisition by Elon Musk's SpaceX
 Published Sat, Aug 29 2026 3:05 PM EDT 
 Lora Kolodny @in/lorakolodny/ 
 WATCH LIVE 
 Key Points
 OpenAI plans to wind down its contract supplying models to Cursor, with a proposed Nov. 12 cutoff.
 OpenAI says it cannot be confident SpaceX will comply with its terms, citing past disputes with Elon Musk’s companies.
 CEO Michael Truell says OpenAI models account for about 5% of Cursor user traffic and that the companies are discussing the decision.
 In this article
 SPCX 
 Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT 
 A combination photo shows CEO of OpenAI Sam Altman (L) on April 28, 2026 and Elon Musk on April 29, 2026 during the trial in Elon Musk's lawsuit over OpenAI for-profit conversion at a federal courthouse in Oakland, California, U.S.
 Manuel Orbegozo | Reuters
 OpenAI announced late Friday that it is ending developers' access to its models on Cursor, following the acquisition of the AI coding startup by Elon Musk's SpaceX earlier this month. 
 Cursor CEO Michael Truell said, in a post on the SpaceX-owned social network X Friday night: "OpenAI models serve about 5% of Cursor user traffic, and we're speaking with the OpenAI team to resolve this. Cursor was one of the very first users of OpenAI, we've worked closely with their team for years, and we've trusted their platform to be neutral infrastructure for our business."
 In their announcement, OpenAI said, "We are making this choice because we cannot be confident that SpaceX will use our technology within our terms of service, based on our experience with Elon Musk's companies violating contracts." 
 Its "proposed shutoff date" for OpenAI models via Cursor is Nov. 12, 2026. OpenAI also said it would not provide future models to Cursor as it winds down the agreement.
 Cursor and OpenAI did not immediately respond to CNBC's requests for comment.
 SpaceX completed its $60 billion acquisition of Cursor on Aug. 14 , according to financial filings. Before SpaceX went public in June, it had acquired Musk's X and xAI in February .
 watch now 
 VIDEO 0:38 00:38 
 SpaceX to buy Cursor AI parent company Anysphere in $60 billion deal
 Squawk Box 
 OpenAI's move away from Cursor, now that SpaceX owns it, is part of a long-running and acrimonious clash between Musk and OpenAI CEO Sam Altman and President Greg Brockman.
 In a post on X on Saturday , Musk wrote, "I couldn't care less. Scam Altman and Greg Stockman are utterly untrustworthy," used an expletive to describe them, then repeated his claim that they "stole an open source nonprofit."
 Musk sued  OpenAI, Altman and Brockman in 2024 after co-founding and helping to fund the AI company as a non-profit research lab in 2015.
 Musk left OpenAI's board in 2018 after hiring talent away from the company, cutting off donations he had promised to OpenAI, and clashing with fellow board members over its direction. He later became one of its most prominent critics.
 After Musk left, OpenAI launched massively successful AI products, namely ChatGPT, struck partnerships with tech titans including Microsoft , converted its business into a for-profit with a non-profit parent, and raised huge sums of funding.
 Musk has argued in court that OpenAI's restructuring violated its founding commitments and has described the change as "stealing a charity." OpenAI disputes his claims. While he lost his lawsuit earlier this year, Musk has vowed to appeal .
 As the market for "vibe coding" — or AI-assisted coding tools — heats up, OpenAI is poised to go public next year, while rival Anthropic has been holding preliminary meetings with bankers ahead of a possible IPO this year at an expected valuation as high as $2 trillion, CNBC previously reported.
 OpenAI's choice to end developers' access to its models via Cursor is not a first in the industry. 
 Last June, Anthropic — which is now partnering with SpaceX and renting compute capacity from Musk's company — blocked Windsurf access to its Claude AI models.
 Anthropic co-founder and executive Tom Brown wrote in a post on X on Friday night, "Cursor has been a trusted partner of Anthropic since Sonnet 3.5. We'll continue to increase compute to support Claude models in Cursor and are excited for what comes next with them at SpaceX."
 His post drew criticism from some technology executives on X, with Replit CEO Amjad Masad reminding Brown of Anthropic's  history with Windsurf , and Docker executive Mat Velloso  replying , "This was a great opportunity to stay quiet."
 Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. 
 Subscribe to CNBC PRO 
 Subscribe to Investing Club 
 Licensing & Reprints 
 CNBC Councils 
 Join the CNBC Panel 
 Digital Products 
 News Releases 
 Closed Captioning 
 Corrections 
 About CNBC 
 Internships 
 Site Map 
 Careers 
 Help 
 Contact 
 News Tips
 Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
 Get In Touch 
 CNBC Newsletters
 Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
 Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
 Advertise With Us
 Please Contact Us 
 Ad Choices 
 Privacy Policy 
 Your Privacy Choices 
 CA Notice 
 Terms of Service 
 © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
 Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
 Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
 and Analysis.
 Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by