SOURCE: https://www.theregister.com/databases/2026/08/26/aws_buys_ducklabs_the_people_behind_the_popular_in_process_olap_database/5292590
FETCHED: 2026-10-02 HTTP 200

AWS buys DuckLabs, the people behind the popular in-process OLAP database 
 Jump to main content 
 Search 
 TOPICS
 Security 
 All Security 
 Cyber-crime 
 Patches 
 Research 
 CSO 
 Off-Prem 
 All Off-Prem 
 Edge and IoT 
 Channel 
 PaaS and IaaS 
 SaaS 
 On-Prem 
 All On-Prem 
 Systems 
 Storage 
 Networks 
 HPC 
 Personal Tech 
 Cx0 
 Public Sector 
 Software 
 All Software 
 AI and ML 
 Applications 
 Databases 
 DevOps 
 OS Platforms 
 Virtualization 
 Offbeat 
 All Offbeat 
 Columnists 
 Science 
 BOFH 
 Legal 
 Site News 
 About Us 
 Special Features 
 All Special Features 
 Cybersecurity Month 2026 
 VMware Explore 2026 
 Cloud Infrastructure Month 2026 
 HPE: AI Explainers 
 Agentic AI 
 The Future of the Datacenter 
 AWS:Reinvent 
 Nvidia GTC 
 Supercomputing Month 
 Computex 2026 
 AI Infrastructure Month 2026 
 The State of Storage 2026 
 RSA Conference 
 Vendor Voice 
 All Vendor Voice 
 Modernizing Financial Services with FIS and AWS 
 Barco 
 Infinidat 
 Everpure 
 Rubrik 
 Make it real with Capgemini and AWS 
 Money Movement Hub 
 ZTE 
 Nutanix: Scale Kubernetes. Not Chaos. 
 AWS New Horizon 
 Digicert 
 Netscout 
 Resources 
 Intelligence 
 Webinars & Events 
 Newsletters 
 Search 
 Sign in 
 AI 
 Security 
 Software 
 Microsoft 
 Developer 
 Open Source 
 BOFH 
 Who, Me? 
 On Call 
 Science 
 REG AD 
 DATABASES
 AWS buys DuckLabs, the people behind the popular in-process OLAP database
 Cloud giant expresses love for DuckDB by buying its main support and development company
 Lindsay Clark 
 Lindsay 
 Clark 
 BUSINESS SOFTWARE AND DATABASE REPORTER 
 Published 
 wed 26 Aug 2026 // 14:31 UTC 
 MOST POPULAR
 AI models keep posting screenshots showing sensitive data from inside tech companies
 Google ending ChromeOS support two years early
 EXCLUSIVE 
 Microsoft tells nonprofits their deleted M365 data isn't coming back
 Stanford prof is beating the drum for a new protocol to replace TCP
 FBI to ShinyHunters: 'We know how to find you'
 Amazon Web Services has bought DuckLabs, the support and development company behind open-source DuckDB. 
 The deal — the financial details of which were not disclosed — will see DuckLabs, founded by authors of the in-process OLAP database, become part of AWS. 
 AWS said DuckDB and its related projects would remain free and open source under their MIT licenses, with the nonprofit DuckDB Foundation continuing to guide them. 
 REG AD 
 Written in C++, the database is embedded within a host process and, as such, there is no DBMS server software to install, update, or maintain. For example, the DuckDB Python package can run queries directly on data in Python software library Pandas without importing or copying data.
 REG AD 
 The brainchild of academics at Amsterdam's Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica mathematical and theoretical computing research center, DuckDB first went public in 2022 and has gathered a strong following among developers and analytics users. 
 It achieved its 1.0 release in 2024 and has since launched into data lakes with DuckLake, which uses DuckDB as metadata storage to get around the “small changes” problem experienced by data lakes.
 AWS has been a fan for a while. Speaking to The Register last year, AWS veep and distinguished engineer Andy Warfield said the cloud giant's engineering team was "super excited" about the DuckLake announcement. "It was passed around broadly across the teams, and people have been playing with it. It's captured people's imaginations for sure," he said . 
 The AWS and DuckLabs teams have already collaborated around S3 Tables , announced by AWS in December 2024, to ensure “we built first-class support for S3 Tables in DuckDB,” Hannes Mühleisen, co-founder and CEO at DuckLabs told The Register on Wednesday . 
 Although the database itself is fully open source under the MIT License, most of the contributions and strategic direction have come from DuckLabs. However, following the merger, Mühleisen sees a greater role for the independent DuckDB Foundation in avoiding any potential conflicts of interest with other technology giants. The database can read and write to Google Sheets and query and manage Google BigQuery datasets via an extension, for example. 
 “We can expand the role of the Foundation as a place where the stakeholders or the people that are building things with DuckDB are coming together. We are thinking about adding a Technical Advisory Board to the Foundation, so that whoever is betting on DuckDB can come together in the Board and have a communication channel through the Foundation, which stays independent,” Mühleisen said. 
 The Foundation, which is led by Mühleisen and Mark Raasveldt, DuckLabs CTO and co-author of the database, has yet to decide the exact governance and voting rights which will determine the direction of the project’s development. Nonetheless, Mühleisen said it would create a mechanism by which the community could play a greater role. 
 In a prepared statement marking the merger, AWS’s Warfield said: 
 REG AD 
 “DuckDB is an incredible open source project with an amazing community; it is broadly used and very much loved by S3 customers today. After about two years of working closely with Mark, Hannes and the team at DuckLabs, I’m excited at the opportunity to help the project have an even broader impact. A lot of what has made DuckDB so successful is the fact that it is completely open source and easily embeddable in so many types of applications. We are committed to the project's continued development in open source and under the stewardship of the DuckDB Foundation.”
 The DuckLabs team will continue to be based in Amsterdam.®
 analytics 
 databases 
 software 
 REG AD 
 OpenAI shows three staff the door over alleged information misuse
 Two safety researchers and a program manager dismissed, company denies retaliation for raising concerns
 Nvidia debuts $4,999 DGX Spark with half the RAM and storage, amid memory crunch
 Meanwhile 128 GB version jumps to $6,950, nearly 75% above its launch price
 Huawei Cloud Rolls Out Enterprise AI Products Across the Board, Building an Open Agentic Cloud
 PARTNER CONTENT: Huawei Cloud strengthens the silicon bedrock on the cloud
 Excel Canvas offers to turn your workbook into the boss's next report
 Copilot builds charts and metrics from spreadsheet data, with automatic refreshes when the numbers change
 OpenAI apes AWS Marketplace while Anthropic remains stubbornly Microsoftian
 By including Baseten in its marketplace, OpenAI signals it wants its models to win on the merits, not through coercion
 Teen suspected of running KillSec ransomware group as cops seize servers, arrest three
 Operation KillSwitch takes over leak site holding at least 110 TB of stolen data
 TOP STORIES
 AI models keep posting screenshots showing sensitive data from inside tech companies
 Astronomer watches Starlink satellites sinking to build a ‘planetary barometer’
 EXCLUSIVE 
 Microsoft tells nonprofits their deleted M365 data isn't coming back
 Google ending ChromeOS support two years early
 Stanford prof is beating the drum for a new protocol to replace TCP
 FBI to ShinyHunters: 'We know how to find you'
 AI 
 Nvidia debuts $4,999 DGX Spark with half the RAM and storage, amid memory crunch
 Meanwhile 128 GB version jumps to $6,950, nearly 75% above its launch price
 Pi coding agent pulls a 180 and adds MCP support
 To maintain minimalism, a new harness layer has been folded into a separate component
 Stanford prof is beating the drum for a new protocol to replace TCP
 Homa is a rethink of networks for the AI age
 Hot Dog! America's new chatbot is packed with wieners
 Just ask America.gov and you'll receive a favorite July 4th food. 
 Huawei boss claims homegrown AI chip sales top Nvidia in China 
 The chips may not be as advanced, but they won't get banned at a moment's notice, Eric Xu says
 Infosec 
 Security
 Russians are posing as Signal support to launch phishing attacks
 PLUS: US takes down Iranian propaganda sites; Marketing company asks 'Why Do We Have Your Information?' And more!
 Security
 Microsoft patches failed to fix on-prem SharePoint, which is now under zero-day attack
 PLUS: China upgrades smartphone surveillance tools; Ring eases anti-snooping stance; and more
 Black Hat and DEF CON
 DEF CON Franklin project enlists hackers to harden critical infrastructure
 Voting village reports have been so successful, says Jeff Moss, that the whole of DEF CON will now be included
 Security
 EQT buys majority share in Swiss cybersecurity biz Acronis
 Went at equivalent of $3.5B+ valuation for entire firm, though portion sold not specified
 Malware Month
 Ten years since the first corp ransomware, Mikko Hyppönen sees no end in sight
 On the plus side, infosec's a good bet for a long, stable career
 FOSS 
 Firefox 157: Could bold new look be just what Mozilla needs?*
 Yet another new version of Firefox, with a significant reskin
 KDE turns 30 and someone's brought an AI-native desktop proposal
 Akademy talk imagines Plasma assembling itself around a personal model of each user
 Shopify extends lifeline to Tailwind as vibe coding erodes web dev platform's bottom line
 Acquisition gives open source CSS framework 'a stable long-term home'
 Switzerland tests a FOSS escape route from Microsoft 365
 Swiss Army sticks a knife in American cloud apps with its own FOSS push
 Feel peak Windows was 7? You might like Kumander Linux
 Debian and Xfce – solid, sensible choices – with a pretty skin
 Canonical shuttering some of its legacy chat channels
 The Ubuntu Pastebin went in June, IRC gets demoted next
 ✕ 
 Biting the hand that feeds IT
 About Us
 Contact us 
 Advertise with us 
 Who we are 
 Newsletter 
 Our Websites
 The Next Platform 
 DevClass 
 Blocks and Files 
 Situation Publishing 
 Your Privacy
 Cookies Policy 
 Privacy Policy 
 Ts & Cs 
 Do not share my personal information 
 Your Consent Options 
 Archives 27 years of articles 
 Copyright. All rights reserved © 1998-2026.