SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/08/28/an-anthropic-researcher-just-gave-us-a-peek-at-self-improving-ai/
FETCHED: 2026-10-02 HTTP 200

An Anthropic researcher just gave us a peek at self-improving AI | TechCrunch 
 –:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
 Latest 
 Startups 
 Venture 
 Apple 
 Security 
 AI 
 Apps 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Events 
 Podcasts 
 Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: Dominika Zarzycka/SOPA Images/LightRocket / Getty Images 
 AI 
 An Anthropic researcher just gave us a peek at self-improving AI
 Russell Brandom 
 12:30 PM PDT · August 28, 2026 
 Training AI models with other AI models has become a very popular goal for neolabs — and now, a researcher in Anthropic’s fellows program has given us an early look at what it might look like in practice.
 On Friday, Anthropic published a new paper titled “ Automated Researchers Can Reliably Mitigate Alignment Failures ,” detailing how AI systems could reliably improve a model’s performance on a set of alignment benchmarks. When given 10 benchmarks for specific misaligned behaviors, the automated systems were able to improve performance on every single one without degrading overall performance.
 Led by Anthropic fellow Chen Yueh-Han, the system replicates much of the traditional approach to research. Each automated system searches the available literature, proposes a method, and trains the model using that method for 30 minutes, gradually increasing the benchmark over several iterations. Effective methods are preserved while ineffective ones are discarded, allowing the system to operate quickly and at a great scale.
 “Overall, these results provide early evidence that automated alignment post-training could become practical in the near term,” the paper reads.
 The paper is a step toward recursive self-improvement , which many see as the next significant step in AI progress. If models can improve their own alignment training, it’s plausible they could improve training practices more broadly — at which point, human AI researchers might soon become obsolete.
 The paper isn’t shy about addressing this idea, explicitly comparing the Automated Alignment Researcher (AAR) to its human equivalent. “The best AAR method beats what experienced humans propose, on average within six hours,” the paper reads. “Human guided research directions do not lead to stronger performance.”
 There’s even a cost comparison, in case anyone wasn’t convinced. “An AAR costs roughly $4 per hour in API inference against the $150 per hour we pay our human researchers.”
 In fairness, the paper also points out a few limitations to this approach. The automated system only works insofar as the benchmarks reflect the actual alignment goals, and even then there’s significant work to be done in establishing and maintaining those benchmarks — not to mention maintaining and expanding on the literature the automated researchers are drawn from.
 Topics
 AI , Anthropic 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Russell Brandom 
 AI Editor 
 Russell Brandom has been covering the tech industry since 2012, with a focus on platform policy and emerging technologies. He previously worked at The Verge and Rest of World, and has written for Wired, The Awl and MIT’s Technology Review.
 He can be reached at russell.brandom@techcrunch.com or on Signal at 412-401-5489. 
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
 Google thinks SpaceX’s Starship has to launch 1,800 times before space data centers get off the ground 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
 Lucas Ropek 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
 Dominic-Madori Davis 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
 Lucas Ropek 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
 Sarah Perez 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
 Kirsten Korosec 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Facebook 
 Instagram 
 youTube 
 Mastodon 
 Threads 
 Bluesky 
 TechCrunch 
 Staff 
 Contact Us 
 Advertise 
 Site Map 
 Terms of Service 
 Privacy Policy 
 RSS Terms of Use 
 Code of Conduct 
 OpenAI 
 Hugging Face 
 Flock 
 Startup Battlefield 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Tech Layoffs 
 ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.