SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/08/29/nvidias-ai-advantage-is-moving-beyond-the-gpu/
FETCHED: 2026-10-02 HTTP 200

Nvidia’s AI advantage is moving beyond the GPU | TechCrunch 
 –:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
 Latest 
 Startups 
 Venture 
 Apple 
 Security 
 AI 
 Apps 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Events 
 Podcasts 
 Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg / Getty Images 
 AI 
 Nvidia’s AI advantage is moving beyond the GPU
 Russell Brandom 
 6:00 AM PDT · August 29, 2026 
 Before this week, the dominant story about Nvidia went something like this: For the first few years of the AI boom, Nvidia was the only source for state-of-the-art GPUs, which became immensely profitable as the industry scaled out. In the last few years, hyperscalers like Amazon and Google have started building their own chips, and Nvidia is no longer the only game in town, leading many investors to wonder how durable its advantage really is.
 It’s a compelling story, and mostly true. After growing its market cap 10x between the start of 2023 and mid-2025, Nvidia shares have been on a more modest trajectory for the past year, driven by concerns about GPU competition.
 A new narrative has taken shape since the company’s earnings on Wednesday and investors are starting to realize that Nvidia’s advantage goes far beyond GPUs. As AI’s compute grows into the gigawatt scale, orchestration has become an increasingly complex task. Not surprisingly, Nvidia has built much of the state-of-the-art hardware needed to handle it, giving the company a huge advantage in the systems that surround the GPU even as it sees increased competition on the GPUs themselves. 
 For all the talk of compute as a commodity , it’s still incredibly difficult to operate a mega-scale data center at peak efficiency — and as deployments get bigger and faster, that challenge is only growing.
 Rack by rack
 You can see some of this just by looking at the details of what Nvidia is actually selling. The company is currently rolling out its Vera Rubin architecture, which pairs the Rubin GPU with a collection of other units, including the Vera CPU, the Groq 3 LPX inference accelerator, and similar racks for storage and networking.
 Over the past week, I’ve been talking to folks at Nvidia about what those systems actually do, and the results have been surprising. Like the Rubin GPU, they’re extremely specialized systems, but instead of churning through tokens, they’re making sure everything outside the GPU works as efficiently as possible. If the GPU is the engine, these are the rest of the car.
 The Vera CPU in particular is focused on the problem of orchestrating data. “Vera is important because there’s only so much memory that you can put in a single server or any sort of compute platform,” Jason Hardy, Nvidia’s VP of storage technology, told me. 
 As data centers have scaled up computing power, memory capacity has scaled up, too, which is why companies like Micron have gotten rich in the second wave of the infrastructure boom. But getting that data to the GPU at the right time isn’t straightforward — and as companies look to drive tokens-per-watt lower and lower, they’re realizing how important that kind of traffic direction is.
 “We saw upwards of 3x improvement in these operations, where the Vera CPU is allowing for acceleration,” Hardy said. “So now we can use our flash to its fullest potential, because we can get all that performance out of it without bottlenecking.”
 You can see versions of the same problem outside of Nvidia. When OpenAI developed its Jalapeño chip, a major focus was avoiding these challenges entirely by minimizing the amount of data that needs to be moved around.
 “We designed Jalapeño to minimize data movement and communication delays,” the company said in a blog post earlier this month . “Its large domain allows the entire workload to remain within one connected system, minimizing data movement and helping the complete request stay fast and efficient from beginning to end.”
 It’s a different approach, avoiding data movement entirely by conducting a workload within one integrated chip. But the overall logic is the same, increasing efficiency with smarter traffic control instead of just more processor cycles. That in turn opens up a whole new layer of infrastructure for companies to compete over.
 This new focus on data orchestration isn’t automatically a win for Nvidia. The company will have to compete with rival chipmakers and hyperscalers just as it has with GPUs. But the competition has moved to a new layer, where building a rival GPU matters less than being able to make the entire system work efficiently. 
 And at least in the early stages, Nvidia looks to have a commanding lead.
 Topics
 AI , GPU , nvidia 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Russell Brandom 
 AI Editor 
 Russell Brandom has been covering the tech industry since 2012, with a focus on platform policy and emerging technologies. He previously worked at The Verge and Rest of World, and has written for Wired, The Awl and MIT’s Technology Review.
 He can be reached at russell.brandom@techcrunch.com or on Signal at 412-401-5489. 
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
 Google thinks SpaceX’s Starship has to launch 1,800 times before space data centers get off the ground 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
 Lucas Ropek 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
 Dominic-Madori Davis 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
 Lucas Ropek 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
 Sarah Perez 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
 Kirsten Korosec 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Facebook 
 Instagram 
 youTube 
 Mastodon 
 Threads 
 Bluesky 
 TechCrunch 
 Staff 
 Contact Us 
 Advertise 
 Site Map 
 Terms of Service 
 Privacy Policy 
 RSS Terms of Use 
 Code of Conduct 
 OpenAI 
 Hugging Face 
 Flock 
 Startup Battlefield 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Tech Layoffs 
 ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.