SOURCE: http://web.archive.org/web/20260831073021id_/https://www.axios.com/2026/08/28/judge-blocks-pentagon-anthropic-blacklist
FETCHED: 2026-10-02 HTTP 200

Judge blocks Pentagon blacklist of Anthropic AI Skip to main content 
 Newsletters 
 Axios Local Show 
 Axios Pro 
 Axios Live 
 The Axios Show 
 Login 
 Axios 
 All topics 
 Axios 
 Search 
 Aug 27, 2026 - Technology 
 Judge blocks Pentagon's Anthropic blacklist
 Mackenzie Weinger 
 email (opens in new window) 
 sms (opens in new window) 
 facebook (opens in new window) 
 twitter (opens in new window) 
 linkedin (opens in new window) 
 bluesky (opens in new window) 
 Add Axios on Google 
 Add Axios as your preferred source to
 see more of our stories on Google.
 Add Axios on Google 
 Photo illustration: Aïda Amer/Axios. Photo: Bill Clark/CQ-Roll Call Inc. via Getty Images
 A federal judge on Thursday struck down the Pentagon's blacklisting of Anthropic as a supply-chain risk , ruling that the government's actions violated Anthropic's constitutional rights.
 Why it matters: The ruling marks a major legal victory for Anthropic in its months-long fight with the Trump administration over how the military can use its AI models.
 Driving the news: U.S. District Judge Rita Lin ruled that the Pentagon's designation of Anthropic as a supply-chain risk was unlawful.
 "The empty invocation of national security is not a blank check to punish and retaliate against government critics," Lin wrote in her 59-page decision.
 "Though the Department of War is undisputedly free to select the AI vendor of its choice, the evidence demonstrates that the broad measures imposed on Anthropic were illegal and baseless."
 Lin noted that the Pentagon continued pursuing work with Anthropic even after the designation: "None of that is consistent with a genuine fear that Anthropic is a saboteur who would poison its software to harm national security."
 What they're saying: "We welcome the court's ruling that this supply chain risk designation was unlawful," an Anthropic spokesperson said in a statement.
 "We remain focused on working productively with the government to harness AI for our national security so all Americans benefit from this technology."
 Catch up quick: The dispute kicked off earlier this year after Anthropic and the Pentagon clashed over the military's use of the company's AI models.
 The Defense Department sought to use Claude for "all lawful purposes," even in the most sensitive military and intelligence applications.
 Anthropic insisted that two areas remain off-limits: mass surveillance of Americans and fully autonomous weapons.
 The standoff escalated, with the Pentagon designating Anthropic a national security and supply-chain risk, leading the AI company to sue.
 What's next: The government is expected to appeal the ruling.
 Anthropic is also fighting a separate Pentagon designation under a different statute in the D.C. Circuit.
 email (opens in new window) 
 sms (opens in new window) 
 facebook (opens in new window) 
 twitter (opens in new window) 
 linkedin (opens in new window) 
 bluesky (opens in new window) 
 Add Axios on Google 
 What to read next
 Smarter, faster on what matters. Explore Axios Newsletters 
 About Axios 
 Advertise with us 
 Careers 
 Contact us 
 Newsletters 
 Axios Live 
 Axios HQ 
 Privacy policy 
 Terms of use 
 Axios Homepage 
 Axios Media Inc., 2026