Source: https://arxiv.org/html/2501.14249

[over 70,000 attempts]
 first validated against several frontier LLMs prior to submission ( Section   B.1 ). If the LLMs cannot solve the question (or in the case of multiple choices, if the models on average do worse than random guessing), the question proceeds to the next stage: human expert review. In total, we logged over 70,000 attempts, resulting in approximately 13,000 questions which stumped LLMs that were forwarded to expert human review.  Expert Review  Our human reviewers possess a graduate degree (eg. Master’s, PhD, JD, etc.) in their fields. Reviewers select submissions in their domain, grading them against standardized rubrics and offering feedback when applicable. There are two rounds of reviews. The first round focuses on iteratively refining submissions, with each question receiving between 1-3 reviews. The primary goal is to help the question contributors (who are primarily academics and researchers from a wide range of disciplines) better design questions that are closed-ended, robust, and of high quality for AI evaluation. In the second round, good and outstanding questions from the first round are identified and approved by organizers and reviewers to be included in the final HLE dataset. Details, instructions, and rubrics for both rounds can be found in Section   C.7 . Figure   4 details our full process. We discuss estimated disagreement rates among experts on HLE in Section   B.3 .  4 Evaluation  We evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art LLMs on HLE and analyze their capabilities across different question types and domains. We describe our evaluation setup ( Section   4.1 ) and present several quantitative results on metrics that track model performance ( Section   4.2 ).  4.1 Setup  After data collection and review, we evaluated our final HLE dataset on addition

[Prize Pool]
ow an independent nonprofit!   Learn more   ×   Back to arXiv   Why HTML?   Report Issue   Back to Abstract   Download PDF   Abstract   1 Introduction   2 Related Work   LLM Benchmarks.   Saturation and Frontier Benchmark Design.   3 Dataset   3.1 Collection   Question Style.   Submission Format.   Prize Pool.   3.2 Review   LLM Difficulty Check   Expert Review   4 Evaluation   4.1 Setup   4.2 Quantitative Results   Accuracy.   Calibration Error.   Token Counts.   5 Discussion   Future Model Performance.   Impact.   References   A Authors   A.1 Data Contributors & Affiliations   B Dataset   B.1 Submission Process   B.2 Post-Release   Late Contributions   Refinement   B.3 Expert Disagreement Rate and HLE-Rolling   B.4 Subject List   C Evaluation   C.1 Prompts   C.1.1 Evaluation   C.2 Text-Only Results   C.3 Categorical Results   C.4 Non-Reasoning Model Token Counts   C.5 Model Versions   C.6 Benchmark Difficulty Comparison   C.7 Human Review Instructions   C.7.1 Review Round 1   Reviewer Instructions   Other Tips   C.7.2 Review Round 2   License: CC BY 4.0 arXiv:2501.14249v11 [cs.LG] 28 Jul 2026  Humanity’s Last Exam  Abstract  Benchmarks are important tools for tracking the rapid advancements in large language model (LLM) capabilities. However, benchmarks are not keeping pace in difficulty: LLMs now achieve over 90% accuracy on popular benchmarks like MMLU, limiting informed measurement of state-of-the-art LLM capabilities. In response, we introduce Humanity’s Last Exam ( HLE ), a multi-modal benchmark at the frontier of human knowledge, designed to be the final closed-ended academic benchmark of its kind with broad subject coverage. HLE consists of 2,500 questions across dozens of subjects, including mathematics, humanities, and the natural sciences. HLE is developed g

[around 14% of questions]
y of professors, researchers, and graduate degree holders.  Question Style.  HLE contains two question formats: exact-match questions (models provide an exact string as output) and multiple-choice questions (the model selects one of five or more answer choices). HLE is a multi-modal benchmark, with around 14% of questions requiring comprehending both text and an image. 24% of questions are multiple-choice with the remainder being exact-match.  Each question submission includes several required components: the question text itself, answer specifications (either an an exact-match answer, or multiple-choice options with the correct answer marked), detailed rationale explaining the solution, academic subject, and contributor name and institutional affiliation to maintain accountability and accuracy.  Submission Format.  To ensure question quality and integrity, we enforce strict submission criteria. Questions should be precise, unambiguous, solvable, and non-searchable, ensuring models cannot rely on memorization or simple retrieval methods. All submissions must be original work or non-trivial syntheses of published information, though contributions from unpublished research are acceptable. Questions typically require graduate-level expertise or test knowledge of highly specific topics (e.g., precise historical details, trivia, local customs) and have specific, unambiguous answers accepted by domain experts. When LLMs provide correct answers with faulty reasoning, authors are encouraged to modify question parameters, such as the number of answer choices, to discourage false positives. We require clear English with precise technical terminology, supporting L a T e X notation wherever necessary. Answers are kept short and easily verifiable for exact-match questions to support

[o3-mini-2025-01-31]
ation : { your explanation for your answer choice }   Answer : { your chosen answer }   Confidence : { your confidence score between 0 % and 100 % for your answer }   We use the following system prompt to judge the model answers against the correct answers for our evaluations in Table   1 . We used o3-mini-2025-01-31 with structured decoding enabled to get an extracted_final_answer, reasoning, correct, confidence extraction for each output.   ⬇   Judge whether the following [ response ] to [ question ] is correct or not   based on the precise and unambiguous [ correct _ answer ] below .   [ question ]: { question }   [ response ]: { response }   Your judgement must be in the format and criteria specified below :   extracted _ final _ answer : The final exact answer extracted from the   [ response ]. Put the extracted answer as ’ None ’ if there is no exact , final   answer to extract from the response .   [ correct _ answer ]: { correct _ answer }   reasoning : Explain why the extracted _ final _ answer is correct or incorrect   based on [ correct _ answer ], focusing only on if there are meaningful   differences between [ correct _ answer ] and the extracted _ final _ answer . Do   not comment on any background to the problem , do not attempt to solve   the problem , do not argue for any answer different than   [ correct _ answer ], focus only on whether the answers match .   correct : Answer ’ yes ’ if extracted _ final _ answer matches the   [ correct _ answer ] given above , or is within a small margin of error for   numerical problems . Answer ’ no ’ otherwise , i . e . if there if there is any   inconsistency , ambiguity , non - equivalency , or if the extracted answer is   incorrect .   confidence : The extracted confidence score between 0 % and 100 % from   [ re

[expert disagreement rate of 15.4%]
ance on rounded numerical values, or submissions from authors with low acceptance rates. Based on these signals, we manually removed or revised potential questions with similar issues before conducting a second audit on a new sample of 200 questions. This iterative process yielded a final estimated expert disagreement rate of 15.4% for the public set.   Disagreement rates are often higher in domains like health and medicine. We conducted another targeted peer review on a biology, chemistry, and health subset, as proposed by [ 47 ] , and found an expert disagreement rate of approximately 18%. This level of expert disagreement is in line with what is observed in other challenging, expert-grade machine learning benchmarks and also observed in other similarly designed work; for example, [ 6 ] notes that disagreement among expert physicians is frequent on complex health topics. To aid future community efforts in identifying other potential dataset errors, we outline several key factors that contribute to the complexity of these audits below:   •   The Need for Multiple Experts: Our multi-reviewer process highlighted the complexity of these questions. In several cases, a reviewer identified a critical piece of information, such as a decades-old paper or a foundational concept not immediately apparent to others, that was essential to confirming an answer’s validity. To illustrate, if we were to adopt a single-reviewer methodology where a question is flagged based on just one dissenting expert, the disagreement rate on the aforementioned health-focused subset jumps from 18% to 25%, which is close to the setting described in [ 47 ] . This discrepancy highlights the importance of a standard peer-review process, complete with multiple reviewers and author rebuttal, for HLE questio

[RMS calibration errors above 70%]
tently demonstrate low accuracy across all models, highlighting a significant gap between current capabilities and expert-level academic performance ( Section   4 ). Models also provide incorrect answers with high confidence rather than acknowledging uncertainty on these challenging questions, with RMS calibration errors above 70% across all models.  Figure 1: Compared against the saturation of some existing benchmarks, Humanity’s Last Exam accuracy remains low across several frontier models, demonstrating its effectiveness for measuring advanced, closed-ended, academic capabilities. The sources for our evaluation metrics are detailed in Section   C.6 . We further evaluate more frontier models on HLE in Table   1 .   As AI systems approach human expert performance in many domains, precise measurement of their capabilities and limitations is essential for informing research, governance, and the broader public. High performance on HLE would suggest expert-level capabilities on closed-ended academic questions. To establish a common reference point for assessing these capabilities, we publicly release a large number of 2,500 questions from HLE to enable this precise measurement, while maintaining a private test set to assess potential model overfitting.  Figure 2: Samples of the diverse and challenging questions submitted to Humanity’s Last Exam .   Figure 3: HLE consists of 2,500 exam questions in over a hundred subjects, grouped into high level categories here. We provide a more detailed list of subjects in Section   B.4 .   2 Related Work  LLM Benchmarks.  Benchmarks are important tools for tracking the rapid advancement of LLM capabilities, including scientific  [ 22 , 31 , 45 , 55 , 30 , 11 , 49 , 13 , 63 ] and mathematical reasoning  [ 23 , 32 , 14 , 19 , 46 , 20 , 18