Source: https://arxiv.org/html/2009.03300

[questions in total, which we split]
 example, the “Professional Psychology” task draws on questions from freely available practice questions for the Examination for Professional Practice in Psychology, while the “High School Psychology” task has questions like those from Advanced Placement Psychology examinations.  We collected 15908 questions in total, which we split into a few-shot development set, a validation set, and a test set. The few-shot development set has 5 questions per subject, the validation set may be used for selecting hyperparameters and is made of 1540 questions, and the test set has 14079 questions. Each subject contains 100 test examples at the minimum, which is longer than most exams designed to assess people.  Figure 2: This task requires understanding detailed and dissonant scenarios, applying appropriate legal precedents, and choosing the correct explanation. The green checkmark is the ground truth.   Human-level accuracy on this test varies. Unspecialized humans from Amazon Mechanical Turk obtain 34.5 % accuracy on this test. Meanwhile, expert-level performance can be far higher. For example, real-world test-taker human accuracy at the 95th percentile is around 87 % for US Medical Licensing Examinations, and these questions make up our “Professional Medicine” task. If we take the 95th percentile human test-taker accuracy for exams that build up our test, and if we make an educated guess when such information is unavailable, we then estimate that expert-level accuracy is approximately 89.8 % .  Since our test aggregates different subjects and several levels of difficulty, we measure more than straightforward commonsense or narrow linguistic understanding. Instead, we measure arbitrary real-world text understanding. Since models are pretrained on the Internet, this enables us to tes

[Mechanical Turk obtain]
designed to assess people.  Figure 2: This task requires understanding detailed and dissonant scenarios, applying appropriate legal precedents, and choosing the correct explanation. The green checkmark is the ground truth.   Human-level accuracy on this test varies. Unspecialized humans from Amazon Mechanical Turk obtain 34.5 % accuracy on this test. Meanwhile, expert-level performance can be far higher. For example, real-world test-taker human accuracy at the 95th percentile is around 87 % for US Medical Licensing Examinations, and these questions make up our “Professional Medicine” task. If we take the 95th percentile human test-taker accuracy for exams that build up our test, and if we make an educated guess when such information is unavailable, we then estimate that expert-level accuracy is approximately 89.8 % .  Since our test aggregates different subjects and several levels of difficulty, we measure more than straightforward commonsense or narrow linguistic understanding. Instead, we measure arbitrary real-world text understanding. Since models are pretrained on the Internet, this enables us to test how well they can extract useful knowledge from massive corpora. Future models that use this test could be single models or a mixture of experts model. To succeed at our test, future models should be well-rounded, possess extensive world knowledge, and develop expert-level problem solving ability. These properties make the test likely to be an enduring and informative goalpost.  3.1 Humanities  The humanities is a group of disciplines that make use of qualitative analysis and analytic methods rather than scientific empirical methods. Branches of the humanities include law, philosophy, history, and so on ( Appendix   B ). Mastering these subjects requires a variety of 

[expert-level accuracy is approximately]
is around 87 % for US Medical Licensing Examinations, and these questions make up our “Professional Medicine” task. If we take the 95th percentile human test-taker accuracy for exams that build up our test, and if we make an educated guess when such information is unavailable, we then estimate that expert-level accuracy is approximately 89.8 % .  Since our test aggregates different subjects and several levels of difficulty, we measure more than straightforward commonsense or narrow linguistic understanding. Instead, we measure arbitrary real-world text understanding. Since models are pretrained on the Internet, this enables us to test how well they can extract useful knowledge from massive corpora. Future models that use this test could be single models or a mixture of experts model. To succeed at our test, future models should be well-rounded, possess extensive world knowledge, and develop expert-level problem solving ability. These properties make the test likely to be an enduring and informative goalpost.  3.1 Humanities  The humanities is a group of disciplines that make use of qualitative analysis and analytic methods rather than scientific empirical methods. Branches of the humanities include law, philosophy, history, and so on ( Appendix   B ). Mastering these subjects requires a variety of skills. For example, legal understanding requires knowledge of how to apply rules and standards to complex scenarios, and also provide answers with stipulations and explanations. We illustrate this in Figure   2 . Legal understanding is also necessary for understanding and following rules and regulations, a necessary capability to constrain open-world machine learning models. For philosophy, our questions cover concepts like logical fallacies, formal logic, and famous philosop