Source: https://mvakde.github.io/blog/44-on-arc-1/

[I trained a small transformer]
thil Vakde’s Homepage Page --> You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience.  Mithil Vakde's Homepage   About Me   Blog   Misc   Mithil Vakde  IIT Bombay '23 Engineering Physics  Follow Bangalore, India  Twitter   LinkedIn   44% on ARC-AGI-1 in 67 cents  I trained a small transformer from scratch in 1.5hrs on a 5090 Beats many LLMs, and scores the same as TRM/HRM  This is an upgrade to my previous model Faster, better, cheaper and still open source.  Also gets 7% on ARC-2  Discussion on Twitter , Code on github   Performance on ARC-1 public eval. I only compare against models that do similar test time training This is the 3rd blog in a series of works on ARC-AGI. Prev: Blog 2 , Blog 1 .  Many ppl thought the prev result was impossible. It got attention from top researchers and went viral on X. Eg: Discussions by Lucas Beyer , Jeremy Howard , Rohan Anil , and comments by many others.  Why work on this?  I think sample efficiency is the most important problem in AI today and I want to solve it.  The intention behind this work is to (1) find the limits of sample efficiency when restricted to transformers / today’s deep learning methods and (2) reduce costs so iteration is much faster and cheaper.  ARC is a great benchmark to test this:  Very few samples (only a 1000 puzzles) in a high dimensional space  Its a metalearning benchmark, so each puzzle uses a different rule, with some common concepts  Very few priors needed: every concept needed in the eval set is present in the train set  It is incredibly easy for humans to solve, and accessible to even poor AI researchers  Benchmark is still unsaturated (for data efficiency, ignore LLMs and approaches that use tons of synthetic data or human inductive biases)  Next, I’ll work on ne

[Also gets 7%]
23 Engineering Physics  Follow Bangalore, India  Twitter   LinkedIn   44% on ARC-AGI-1 in 67 cents  I trained a small transformer from scratch in 1.5hrs on a 5090 Beats many LLMs, and scores the same as TRM/HRM  This is an upgrade to my previous model Faster, better, cheaper and still open source.  Also gets 7% on ARC-2  Discussion on Twitter , Code on github   Performance on ARC-1 public eval. I only compare against models that do similar test time training This is the 3rd blog in a series of works on ARC-AGI. Prev: Blog 2 , Blog 1 .  Many ppl thought the prev result was impossible. It got attention from top researchers and went viral on X. Eg: Discussions by Lucas Beyer , Jeremy Howard , Rohan Anil , and comments by many others.  Why work on this?  I think sample efficiency is the most important problem in AI today and I want to solve it.  The intention behind this work is to (1) find the limits of sample efficiency when restricted to transformers / today’s deep learning methods and (2) reduce costs so iteration is much faster and cheaper.  ARC is a great benchmark to test this:  Very few samples (only a 1000 puzzles) in a high dimensional space  Its a metalearning benchmark, so each puzzle uses a different rule, with some common concepts  Very few priors needed: every concept needed in the eval set is present in the train set  It is incredibly easy for humans to solve, and accessible to even poor AI researchers  Benchmark is still unsaturated (for data efficiency, ignore LLMs and approaches that use tons of synthetic data or human inductive biases)  Next, I’ll work on new research ideas to break these limits. I’ll try to keep costs low so that anyone in the world can work on this.  Tech details  How does it work?  The overall approach is similar to last time ( full t

[it will still score ~40%]
ervised). This. performs slightly better 40% $\to$ 44% but I don’t understand why. Perhaps finite model capacity  I also increased the training data by adding the non-overlapping tasks from ARC-2. I did this very carefully to ensure no leakage. You can remove the extra data if you don’t like it and it will still score ~40%, but it will need ~double the compute.  Context: ARC-2 contains 773 ARC-1 puzzles and 347 new puzzles. Most eval puzzles of ARC-1 are repeated, so if you naively train on ARC-2, then its a dataleak and you will score 100%. I avoid this by carefully filtering out the 773 repeated puzzles (so no leak!)  There are many other changes that gave incremental improvements in performance or speed. Find the full list of changes here .  Interesting behaviour  Since I am no longer training on inputs, this approach is now supervised. What’s weird is that the test loss is now worse, yet it scores better! Also it is more stable and there’s less variance in scores.  Many ppl today are working on sample efficiency by aiming for the lowest val loss on a small dataset. I think that’s great, but this points out a failure mode in such an approach  I do think the unsupervised style training will be better in some scenarios, and I am evaluating this.  Before NorMuon, I tried vanilla Muon. Obviously it trained much faster than AdamW, but the loss (and scores) would loiter at the end instead of converging. I found that cranking down the momentum and/or LR drastically at this point helped, but I didn’t want to make manually changes like this. When I switched to NorMuon, the problem disappeared  Ablations  The biggest contribution to performance seems to be good representations (3D RoPE + per-task embedding).  Removing 3D RoPE or the per-task embedding gives a steep drop. Both 

[totally amounts to 67 cents]
this and other concerns.  TTT also follows the spirit of a metalearning benchmark, so its fine!  You are not including training costs  No, this is false . I show the entire lifetime compute. This is the cost of training the model from init + the total cost of running inference on all tasks . Yes it totally amounts to 67 cents. Check the prices of a 5090 for 2hrs on vast.ai  Test time training is traditionally done one task at a time. Training on all test tasks at once is unrealistic  Yes, this criticism makes sense. But it’s nuanced  I agree that its rare to see to face problem sets in real life where every problem is given at once. Even if it is (like an exam), humans can usually only attempt one at a time  But just because humans don’t have a capability shouldn’t mean it invalidates building an AI model with that capability. Otherwise we could say LLMs are unrealistic since humans can’t train on the entire internet / can’t read tokens as fast  Also, it is unclear if humans are limited to one might be able to train on different data from multiple sensory at a time, exactly like   Providing cost per task amortises cost of training since all test tasks are trained on at once. So comparing other models is unfair  Yeah this is fair. In my defense: That’s how the organisers compare every model, including TRM which also trains on all test tasks at once  I was also more generous by including training and inference costs while LLMs and other models exclude pre-training/offline training costs.  I have now switched to (a) showing lifetime compute cost instead of per-task, (b) comparing only with TRM, HRM and CompressARC and not with LLMs / other methods and (c) I added ablations with comparable training styles  Answering criticism about ARC-AGI itself  When I posted last time, t

[Performance on ARC-1 public eval]
dIn   44% on ARC-AGI-1 in 67 cents  I trained a small transformer from scratch in 1.5hrs on a 5090 Beats many LLMs, and scores the same as TRM/HRM  This is an upgrade to my previous model Faster, better, cheaper and still open source.  Also gets 7% on ARC-2  Discussion on Twitter , Code on github   Performance on ARC-1 public eval. I only compare against models that do similar test time training This is the 3rd blog in a series of works on ARC-AGI. Prev: Blog 2 , Blog 1 .  Many ppl thought the prev result was impossible. It got attention from top researchers and went viral on X. Eg: Discussions by Lucas Beyer , Jeremy Howard , Rohan Anil , and comments by many others.  Why work on this?  I think sample efficiency is the most important problem in AI today and I want to solve it.  The intention behind this work is to (1) find the limits of sample efficiency when restricted to transformers / today’s deep learning methods and (2) reduce costs so iteration is much faster and cheaper.  ARC is a great benchmark to test this:  Very few samples (only a 1000 puzzles) in a high dimensional space  Its a metalearning benchmark, so each puzzle uses a different rule, with some common concepts  Very few priors needed: every concept needed in the eval set is present in the train set  It is incredibly easy for humans to solve, and accessible to even poor AI researchers  Benchmark is still unsaturated (for data efficiency, ignore LLMs and approaches that use tons of synthetic data or human inductive biases)  Next, I’ll work on new research ideas to break these limits. I’ll try to keep costs low so that anyone in the world can work on this.  Tech details  How does it work?  The overall approach is similar to last time ( full technical details here ), but I added a bunch of upgrades. Here’s