Source: https://arxiv.org/html/2509.07968

[a 1,000-prompt benchmark]
to Measure Parametric Knowledge  Lukas Haas  Affiliation: Google DeepMind  Gal Yona  Affiliation: Google Research  Giovanni D’Antonio  Affiliation: Google DeepMind  Sasha Goldshtein  Affiliation: Google Research  Dipanjan Das  Affiliation: Google DeepMind  Abstract  We introduce SimpleQA Verified , a 1,000-prompt benchmark for evaluating Large Language Model (LLM) short-form factuality based on OpenAI’s SimpleQA. It addresses critical limitations in OpenAI’s benchmark, including noisy and incorrect labels, topical biases, and question redundancy. SimpleQA Verified was created through a rigorous multi-stage filtering process involving de-duplication, topic balancing, and source reconciliation to produce a more reliable and challenging evaluation set, alongside improvements in the autorater prompt. On this new benchmark, Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves a state-of-the-art F1-score of 55.6, outperforming other frontier models, including GPT-5. This work provides the research community with a higher-fidelity tool to track genuine progress in parametric model factuality and to mitigate hallucinations. The benchmark dataset, evaluation code, and leaderboard are available at: https://www.kaggle.com/benchmarks/deepmind/simpleqa-verified .  1 Introduction  The capacity of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate factually accurate information is vital for their utility and a primary concern for widespread adoption. Inaccurate or "hallucinated" outputs erode user trust and still present barriers, particularly in critical enterprise applications where factual reliability is non-negotiable. Consequently, the rigorous evaluation of model factuality has become a central focus of AI research, driving the need for benchmarks that can accurately measure and differentiate the capabilities of stat

[outperforming other frontier models]
 rigorous multi-stage filtering process involving de-duplication, topic balancing, and source reconciliation to produce a more reliable and challenging evaluation set, alongside improvements in the autorater prompt. On this new benchmark, Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves a state-of-the-art F1-score of 55.6, outperforming other frontier models, including GPT-5. This work provides the research community with a higher-fidelity tool to track genuine progress in parametric model factuality and to mitigate hallucinations. The benchmark dataset, evaluation code, and leaderboard are available at: https://www.kaggle.com/benchmarks/deepmind/simpleqa-verified .  1 Introduction  The capacity of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate factually accurate information is vital for their utility and a primary concern for widespread adoption. Inaccurate or "hallucinated" outputs erode user trust and still present barriers, particularly in critical enterprise applications where factual reliability is non-negotiable. Consequently, the rigorous evaluation of model factuality has become a central focus of AI research, driving the need for benchmarks that can accurately measure and differentiate the capabilities of state-of-the-art systems.  To meet this need, researchers have developed diverse evaluation paradigms. Many prominent approaches assess a model’s ability to reason over externally provided information; this includes grounding evaluations, which test factuality with respect to a given context ( Jacovi et al., 2025 ; Rashkin et al., 2022 ) , and retrieval-augmented benchmarks which evaluate the use of search tools to access fresh or real-time information beyond the model’s training data ( Vu et al., 2023 ; Kasai et al., 2024 ; Krishna et al., 2025 ; Yang et al., 2024 ) . Another line of work