SOURCE https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Execution_model fetched 2026-10-05
[...]
Stack and execution contexts

Job queue and event loop

Agent clusters and memory sharing
[...]
Heap (of objects): this is just a name to denote a large (mostly unstructured) region of memory. It gets populated as objects get created in the program. Note that in the case of shared memory, each agent has its own heap with its own version of a SharedArrayBuffer object, but the underlying memory represented by the buffer is shared.

Queue (of jobs) : this is known in HTML (and also commonly) as the event loop which enables asynchronous programming in JavaScript while being single-threaded. It's called a queue because it's generally first-in-first-out: earlier jobs are executed before later ones.

Stack (of execution contexts) : this is what's known as a call stack and allows transferring control flow by entering and exiting execution contexts like functions. It's called a stack because it's last-in-first-out. Every job enters by pushing a new frame onto the (empty) stack, and exits by emptying the stack.
[...]
console.log(f()); // logs 10

Job queue and event loop

An agent is a thread, which means the interpreter can only process one statement at a time. When the code is all synchronous, this is fine because we can always make progress. But if the code needs to perform asynchronous action, then we cannot progress unless that action is completed. However, it would be detrimental to user experience if that halts the whole program—the nature of JavaScript as a web scripting language requires it to be never blocking . Therefore, the code that handles the completion of that asynchronous action is defined as a callback. This callback defines a job , which gets placed into a job queue —or, in HTML terminology, an event loop—once the action is completed.

Every time, the agent pulls a job from the queue and executes it. When the job is executed, it may create more jobs, which are added to the end of the queue. Jobs can also be added via the completion of asynchronous platform mechanisms, such as timers, I/O, and events. A job is considered completed when the stack is empty; then, the next job is pulled from the queue. Jobs might not be pulled with uniform priority—for example, HTML event loops split jobs into two categories: tasks and microtasks . Microtasks have higher priority and the microtask queue is drained first before the task queue is pulled. For more information, check the HTML microtask guide . If the job queue is empty, the agent waits for more jobs to be added.

"Run-to-completion"
[...]
Never blocking

Another important guarantee offered by the event loop model is that JavaScript execution is never blocking. Handling I/O is typically performed via events and callbacks, so when the application is waiting for an IndexedDB query to return or a fetch() request to return, it can still process other things like user input. The code that executes after the completion of an asynchronous action is always provided as a callback function (for example, the promise then() handler, the callback function in setTimeout() , or the event handler), which defines a job to be added to the job queue once the action completes.

Of course, the guarantee of "never-blocking" requires the platform API to be inherently asynchronous, but some legacy exceptions exist like alert() or synchronous XHR. It is considered good practice to avoid them to ensure the responsiveness of the application.
[...]
See also

Event loops in the HTML standard

What is the Event Loop? in the Node.js docs

Help improve MDN
(extract: lines around the facts used; trimmed by a script)
