SOURCE: https://www.mediapost.com/publications/article/417561/chatgpt-ads-reaches-1b-annualized/
READ: 2026-10-02

Toggle navigation 
- Publications 
- Current Stories MediaPost Home Today's News Today's Opinions MediaPost Week in Review 
 News Dailies Media Daily News Marketing Daily Agency Daily Television News Daily 
 Marketing Weeklies Marketing CPG Marketing Retail Marketing QSR Marketing Pharma & Health Marketing Automotive Marketing Politics 
 Opinion Brand Insider Brand Insider Podcast Brand Insider BTS 
 Opinion Media Insider Planning & Buying Insider Media 3.0 Advanced TV Insider TV Watch Marketing Insider Data & Programmatic Insider Performance Marketing Insider Email Insider Publishing Insider MAD Blog 
- Events 
- Events Home 2026 Events Calendar 2027 Events Calendar Insider Summit VIP Experiences Calendar Upcoming Events OMMA Awards
 October 7-7, 2026, NYC
 Brand Insider Summit: Luxury
 October 19-22, 2026, Napa, CA
 Brand Insider Summit: QSR
 November 15-18, 2026, Santa Barbara
 Brand Insider Summit: CPG
 November 18-21, 2026, Santa Barbara
 Marketing Automotive
 November 19-19, 2026, Los Angeles
 More Upcoming Events Email Insider Summit
 December 6-9, 2026, Park City
 TV & Video Insider Summit
 December 9-12, 2026, Park City
 Performance Marketing Insider Summit
 December 13-16, 2026, Park City
 Brand Insider Summit: Travel & Hospitality
 March 14-17, 2027, Scottsdale
 Brand Insider Summit: Sports Marketing
 April 11-14, 2027, New Orleans
 Planning and Buying Insider Summit
 April 14-17, 2027, New Orleans
 Recently Concluded Brand Insider Summit: Travel & Hospitality
 September 28, 2026
through October 1, 2026
, Austin
 Planning and Buying Insider Summit
 September 8-11, 2026, Chicago
 Data & Programmatic Insider Summit
 August 16-19, 2026, Olympic Valley
 Brand Insider Summit: Retail
 August 12-15, 2026, Olympic Valley
 Brand Insider Summit: Pharma & Health
 July 29, 2026
through August 1, 2026
, Park City
 Brand Insider Summit: Sports Marketing
 July 26-29, 2026, Park City
 Brand Insider Summit: Financial Services
 May 31, 2026
through June 3, 2026
, Nashville
- Awards 
- MediaPost Awards Agency of the Year Planning & Buying Awards Marketing Automotive Awards OMMA Awards (October 7, 2026, NYC) 
- Members 
- Become A MediaPost Member Subscribe to your choice of industry specific newsletters, save $100 on conferences, search member directories, comment on stories and more. Free to qualified media, marketing and advertising professionals.
 Join Now Member Resources All Member Directory Manage My Account Manage My Subscriptions 
- More 
- Additional Resources Feedback Loop (Comments) Premium Research Whitepapers Webinars About and Contacts About MediaPost Contact Editorial Privacy/Terms Media Kit 
- Search 
- Advanced Search 
- 
 Sign in 
- Username 
 Password 
 Remember me 
 Forgot your password? 
- Register 
- Advertise 
- Follow 
- 
- 
 While other MediaPost newsletters and articles remain free to all ... our new Research Intelligencer service is reserved for paid subscribers ...
 Subscribe today to gain access to every Research Intelligencer article we publish as well as the exclusive daily newsletter, full access to The MediaPost Cases , first-look research and daily insights from Joe Mandese, Editor in Chief.
 Become a subscriber today! 
 If you're already a paid subscriber, please sign-in.
 Username   
 Password   
    Forgot? 
 Become a free MediaPost member now to read this article
- Unlimited articles every day
- Keep up-to-date with media, marketing and advertising news
- Invitations to exclusive industry events and research
 Log in if you are already a member
 Username   
 Password   
    Forgot? 
 Subscribe to MediaDailyNews 
 ChatGPT Ads Reaches $1B - Annualized - In 200 Days
- 
 by Laurie Sullivan 
 , 
 August 31, 2026
 Several days after agencies took
to LinkedIn to discuss how they did not see performance from ChatGPT Ads, parent company OpenAI announced it had reached a $1 billion annualized revenue run rate for its advertising business.
 "In less than 200 days after launch, ChatGPT Ads has reached $1 billion in annualized revenue run rate," the company wrote in a blog posted on Monday. "The platform is now used by tens of thousands
of advertisers and continues to expand globally.
 Starting later today, advertisers can purchase ChatGPT ads directly via Ads Manager across India, Europe, the Middle East, and North
Africa.
 The company said it is working on the next "phase of growth" to bring ChatGPT Ads to more markets and introduce additional formats, objectives, buying options, and measurement
capabilities, as well as explore new ways for businesses to interact with consumers in ChatGPT.
 advertisement
 advertisement
 OpenAI treated the announcement as a milestone as it prepares to take the company through an
initial public offering (IPO), calling its ad business as one piece of a "diversified business model, alongside consumer subscriptions, enterprise offerings, and usage-based APIs."
 A
diversified business model is something all public companies need to attract investors, along with an advertising-supported, free tier to support ChatGPT's more than 1 billion weekly active
users.
 OpenAI also reminded advertisers and users that ChatGPT
advertisements are always clearly marked and they do no t influence answers that the chatbot provides. "Advertisers do not receive access to people’s private conversations, and
users can control how their ad experience is personalized," the company wrote.
"This announcement is both incredibly impressive and terribly disappointing,” Emarketer AI
analyst Nate Elliott, wrote in an email.  "On the one hand, OpenAI has ramped its ad business with amazing speed, but on the other hand, these numbers point to them missing their own goals by a
country mile.
 “If they're just now hitting a $1 billion run rate -- rather than actual revenue -- eight months into the year, it'll be all but impossible for them to meet
their own $2.5 billion ad revenue target for 2026,” he wrote 
 Ads do not influence answers, but answers do influence the ads -- whether or not ChatGPT users click through after seeing the ad impression. Last
week,  Peter Jaffray, managing director and privacy officer at Choice OMG, a Canadian digital marketing agency based in Edmonton, Canada, told MediaPost he ran a small campaign
targeting ads in Ontario and Alberta, but did not get any interested buyers, zero, though the ads were inexpensive and the people were real who clicked on them. In other words, the clicks were not
generated by bots. “I got many more impressions than expected, but the clickthrough rate was substantially lower, about 0.6%,” he said. “Generally, I would get 2%, if I compared
the campaign with search ads, rather than display.”
 Performance is what the ads lacked from the impressions and clicks, according to Jaffray, but at least one OpenAI ChatGPT Ads
advertiser disagrees.
 OpenAI's new Max Results bid strategy has driven major improvements in CPC, CPM, and CTR — so much so that we now compete with Meta and Google. He posted a graph
that demonstrates "a clear-cut line where we enabled it across our campaigns, after which we had the highest CTR of the three channels," Evan Engler, senior paid search buyer at Common Thread
Collective, wrote in a LinkedIn blog post during the weekend. 
 Engler works with advertisers to run ChatGPT Ads campaigns.  
 "Spend volume is significantly
different here, so it's hard to compare directly, but these are the improvements advertisers have been waiting to see from ChatGPT," Engler wrote.  
 He has been touting
OpenAI's ad business for at least a week, writing that one of his clients in the first day saw a more than 50% increase to clicks, 108% increase to CTR, and all at a 19% less than typical CPC and
reduction in CPMs by 17% cost to CPMs.  
 Jaffray responded to Engler's post on LinkedIn.
 "Early CTR gains on ChatGPT Ads are worth watching, but the attribution question is
where this gets interesting," Jaffery wrote, questioning Engler's outcome. "When someone sees the ad, then asks ChatGPT a follow-up question, then converts three days later on a branded search, none
of the three channels you named will cleanly own that. Are you seeing conversions land in the OpenAI reporting yet, or mostly the top-funnel metrics so far?"
 Engler did not publicly
respond.
 OpenAI wrote in today's post that it has expanded its ecosystem to more than 50 technology and measurement partners, which should help find that performance.
 The company also
touted r ecent examples of an ecommerce advertiser achieving a 3x return on ad spend across its campaigns spanning 28 days, while a technology partner reported that more than 80% of ad-driven
ChatGPT traffic is from new customers. 
- 
- 
- 
 ad buys ,
 advertising ,
 artificial intelligence ,
 chatbot ,
 chatbots ,
 impressions ,
 media buying ,
 yahoo finance 
 Comment 
 Next story loading 
 advertisement
 More from MediaDailyNews 
- Google Publishes Guidelines For Using Generative AI Content Online 
- Instagram Prioritizes Live Video Ads With New Creator Boosts 
- New Mexico Wants Judge To Fine Meta At Least $35 Billion 
- Shopify Launches Site-Building Tool, Integrates Meta AI Agent 
- Google Defeats Search Users' Antitrust Suit 
 SPONSOR CONTENT
- 
 Head to Santa Barbara with CPG Marketers!
- 
 Congratulations to our Finalists! As always, competition was fierce.