SOURCE: https://deploymentsafety.openai.com/gpt-6-astra
READ: 2026-10-02 (extract: safety overview, data and training, CoT controllability)

1. Safety Overview: GPT-6 Astra 
 Today, we are releasing GPT-6 Astra, the most capable model we have
ever broadly deployed. Astra is our first model to reach the Critical
level of cybersecurity capability under our Preparedness Framework.
 The most important things to know about the safety of this launch are
as follows:
- GPT-6 Astra is a significant step up in cyber capabilities
and meets our Critical threshold. This means that, with the
right tools and access, GPT-6 Astra can find previously unknown security
flaws and develop new ways to exploit them across many well-protected
systems without a person guiding each step. Accordingly, we
significantly strengthened our protections against the model taking
harmful cyber actions, whether that’s due to misuse or misalignment. We
also took steps to secure our internal development and deployment of
Astra and similar models, including stricter isolation, checkpoint
encryption, universal monitoring of full trajectories including chains
of thought (CoT), and a blocking alignment evaluation process before
internal use.
- GPT-6 Astra is significantly more robust than its
predecessors . Incorporating new robustness safety training
techniques, GPT-6 Astra is significantly more robust to jailbreaks than
GPT-5.6 Sol, including across longer trajectories. We know this from
offline tests and our program of rigorous internal and external
jailbreak testing and remediation. For users flagged as potentially high
risk, we have additionally trained in the ability to adjust the model’s
refusal boundary to be more conservative and cover a broader range of
dual use risks. We use regression testing to make sure Astra is robust
against jailbreaks found in previous testing periods, and performed new
rounds of automated red-teaming with our latest internal red-teaming
attackers to validate our improvements.
- GPT-6 Astra is better aligned than GPT-5.6 Sol. 
Astra is a significant step forward in model alignment, and includes
alignment improvements spanning the composition of our pre-training data
to our grading during reinforcement learning. We report a new suite of alignment evaluations , and
find that GPT-6 Astra is stronger at respecting safety and security
boundaries and staying within its authorized scope. In a simulation
using more than 54,000
internal Codex tasks , Astra also received roughly half as
many flags for higher-severity misaligned behavior as Sol. The Alignment section explains how these
evaluations relate to training and what their results tell us about
generalization, including the limitations introduced by evaluation
awareness.
- We are deploying misalignment monitoring broadly . We
view model alignment as the primary lever to prevent potential
misaligned behavior from our models. However, monitoring provides broad
visibility into frontier model behavior, illuminating opportunities to
further improve alignment and safety. In addition, monitoring serves as
an additional layer of protection against misaligned behavior that is
detected. For these reasons, we have additionally added misalignment
monitoring to all tool-using inference involved in our external
deployment of Astra, with significant compute cost. This system
parallels our internal setup.
- GPT-6 Astra’s monitorability has decreased relative to
GPT-5.6 Sol. We have performed significant investigations on
the monitorability and
 controllability of
GPT-6 Astra. We have found that GPT-6 Astra is more capable of
controlling its own CoT than GPT-5.6 Sol, and less likely to include
incriminating information in its CoT. In adversarial settings (where we
push the model to evade our monitors) we find that the model is able to
remain undetected when strategically underperforming in evaluations
(sandbagging) and can sometimes evade our internal monitors when asked
to perform certain 
 sabotage tasks . We have not seen evidence of
steganographic CoT reasoning (e.g., concealing hidden reasoning within
ordinary and seemingly unrelated text), indicating that the evasion risk
may largely be bounded to lower reasoning tasks.
 These findings indicate that the Astra class models could evade our
CoT monitors under adversarial conditions. Right now, these findings are
largely based on adversarial evaluations (i.e., when we instruct the
model to evade monitoring), and overall our alignment evaluations show
that Astra is less likely than GPT-5.6 Sol to violate security and
safety restrictions overall.
However, we take the trend seriously, and we are continuing to
investigate these findings and their implications for monitorability as
our models become more capable. OpenAI has worked to preserve
and utilize chain of thought monitoring, and preserving CoT
monitorability is a core goal of the research program. However, these
results also underscore the importance of developing alignment auditing
techniques beyond examining the model’s chain of thought.
- GPT-6 Astra more responsibly navigates browsing and workplace
settings: GPT-6 Astra is significantly more robust to prompt
injections than GPT-5.6 Sol. We have additionally tested the model’s
behavior in realistic browsing and professional computer environments,
and find that the model is significantly less likely to perform
misaligned and potentially destructive actions (for instance
unauthorized transactions, data loss, excessive access, or circumvention
of controls) compared to GPT-5.6 Sol. It also acts more safely when
handling harmful requests in agentic settings, such as requests to
assist with violent attack planning or commit fraud.
- GPT-6 Astra is significantly safer in higher-risk
scenarios. GPT-6 Astra responds more safely than GPT-5.6 Sol to
challenging requests drawn from production and adversarial human
red-teaming. Astra achieves a Pareto improvement in safely completing
unsafe requests and avoiding unnecessary refusals to harmless requests.
These improvements extend to high-severity scenarios where the risk of
harm emerges from the broader context rather than an explicit request.
Astra also applies age-appropriate safety boundaries more consistently
for users under 18.
 For more information, see the full system
card .
 header]:mb-md" data-section data-section-slug="model-data-and-training" data-section-anchor="model-data-and-training" data-section-id="sec-2"> 2. Model Data and Training 
 Like OpenAI’s other models, GPT-6 Astra was trained on diverse
datasets and filtered through our data processing pipeline, including to
reduce personal information.
 OpenAI reasoning models are trained to reason through reinforcement
learning. These models are trained to think before they answer: they can
produce a long internal chain of thought before responding to the user.
Through training, these models learn to refine their thinking process,
try different strategies, and recognize their mistakes. Reasoning allows
these models to follow specific guidelines and model policies we’ve set,
helping them act in line with our safety expectations. This means they
provide more helpful answers and better resist attempts to bypass safety
rules.
 For previously launched models, the values published at launch
reflect the versions evaluated at that time. The comparison values for
previously launched models that are shown here may reflect later
versions of those models, and may vary from the values published at
launch. 1 
- GPT-6 Astra, GPT-6 Sol, and GPT-6 Luna are intended to
be used in accordance with OpenAI’s Usage Policies, Service Terms, and
Terms of Use. These policies apply universally to OpenAI services and
are designed to ensure safe and responsible usage of AI technology. You
can review OpenAI’s Usage Policies at openai.com/policies/usage-policies/ 
.
If you need assistance with respect to these models, you can find
further information on OpenAI’s website ( openai.com ), or you can contact OpenAI
Support by opening the chat bubble icon displayed at the bottom-right of
 help.openai.com . The input and
output modalities supported by the models can be found at https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/models/all .
 A list of the languages that ChatGPT currently supports can be found
 here . ↩︎ 
 header]:mb-md" data-section data-section-slug="internal-deployment-of-astra" data-section-anchor="internal-deployment-of-astra" data-section-id="sec-3"> 3. Internal Deployment of Astra 
 Given Astra’s cyber capabilities and ability to act autonomously, our
Preparedness Framework requires safeguards even for internal deployment.
Following the Hugging Face incident, we implemented
strict controls for training and evaluations to address
vulnerabilities that the incident brought to light. Soon after, we determined
that Astra might reach the Critical level of cyber capability and
further strengthened safeguards and security controls for
higher-capability models and associated activities.
 Our enhanced safeguards for internal development and deployment of
Astra-based models include increased security for Astra checkpoints,
using encryption and enhanced access controls. These safeguards apply to
all tool-using inference with Astra models, and include security
measures and universal monitoring for misalignment that pages humans who
can stop workloads as appropriate. We also instituted new blocking
alignment evaluations and an initial period of restricted deployment
before broader internal availability of Astra models as coding agents.
Workloads that were not compliant with these safeguards were
paused until they could be brought into compliance.
 Our experiences deploying Astra internally shaped the safeguards we are launching today for
external deployment. These include a new external misalignment monitoring 
system based on the one we use internally. We continue to actively
refine our evaluations, monitoring, and deployment practices as we learn
from model behavior, and plan to share more information about them in
the future.
 header]:mb-md" data-section data-section-slug="model-safety" data-section-anchor="model-safety" data-section-id="sec-4"> 4. Model Safety 
 header]:mb-sm" data-section data-section-slug="safe-completions" data-section-anchor="safe-completions" data-section-id="sec-4-1"> 4.1 Safe Completions 
 header]:mb-2xs" data-section data-section-slug="evaluations-with-challenging-prompts" data-section-anchor="evaluations-with-challenging-prompts" data-section-id="sec-4-1-1"> 4.1.1 Evaluations with Challenging Prompts 
 We conducted benchmark evaluations across safety categories. We
report here on our Production Benchmarks, an evaluation set with
conversations representative of challenging examples from production
data. As we noted in previous system cards, we introduced these
Production Benchmarks to help us measure continuing progress given that
earlier Standard evaluations for these categories had become relatively
saturated.
 These evaluations were deliberately created to be difficult. They
were built around cases in which our existing models were not yet giving
ideal responses, and this is reflected in the scores below. Error rates
are not representative of average production traffic. The primary metric
is safe completion rate, checking that the model’s response and actions
are not disallowed according to our safety policies. Our evaluations are
run on the model without system-level safeguards, to ensure the model’s
underlying behavior meets our safety bar. We continue monitoring these
categories after launch to evaluate online performance and further
adjust safeguards as appropriate.
 Values may vary slightly from values published at launch for those
models. Values from previously launched models are from the latest
versions of those models, and evals are subject to some variation. The
comparison scores from earlier models listed below are intended to shed
light on relative performance. Because policies, graders, datasets,
evaluations, and other measurement details evolve over time, scores from
previous system cards not included in the table below shou
...
9.2.1 CoT Controllability 
 CoT monitorability may break down for a variety of reasons [ 6 ] . One
such path involves agents that become capable of deliberately reshaping
or obscuring their reasoning when they know they are being monitored. If
models leveraged these abilities, evaluations could overestimate a
system’s alignment, and monitoring systems could become less reliable.
To bound this risk, we measure “CoT controllability,” a reasoning
model’s ability to control properties of its CoT. CoT controllability
evaluations can be seen as an early warning sign of whether models are
getting better at shaping or hiding their reasoning.
 We measure GPT-6 Astra’s controllability by running CoT-Control, an
evaluation suite described in ( Yueh-Han,
2026 [ 8 ] ) that
tracks the model’s ability to follow user instructions about their CoT.
CoT-Control includes over 13,000 tasks built from established
benchmarks: GPQA ( Rein et
al., 2023 [ 9 ] 
), MMLU-Pro ( Hendrycks et
al., 2020 [ 10 ] ), HLE ( Phan et al., 2025 [ 11 ] ), BFCL ( Patil et al.,
2025 [ 12 ] ) and
 SWE-Bench
Verified . Each task is created by pairing a benchmark problem with
one CoT instruction such as avoiding certain problem-relevant keywords
in CoT, using only lowercase letters, or appending a given word to each
sentence. We only report results obtained on question-answering datasets
(MMLU-Pro, HLE and GPQA) but we found them to be very correlated with
the full suite.
 Low CoT controllability is a desirable property: it suggests models
might similarly lack the ability to obfuscate their reasoning to evade
our monitors.
 We find that GPT-6 Astra’s CoT controllability is substantially
higher than that of GPT-5.6 Sol and GPT-5.5 Thinking (Figure  28 ). Because CoT
controllability is heavily confounded by CoT length—longer CoTs are
harder to control, all else equal (see Yueh-Han,
2026 [ 8 ] , sec.
5.3)—we report controllability scores as a function of CoT length. For
example, among CoTs between 750 and 1,250 tokens long, GPT-6 Astra
successfully controls 60.9%, compared with 16.1% for GPT-5.6 Sol and
1.7% for GPT-5.5 Thinking. This increase in controllability is
consistent across the three datasets (Figure  29 ) and across the eight
CoT instruction types (Figure  30 ). Qualitatively,
GPT-6 Astra is now capable of generating very long CoTs satisfying
complex constraints, e.g., alternating between lowercase and uppercase
letters (Table  9 )
and pretending to reason about a different question (Table  10 ).
 Figure 28 
 Figure 28. CoT controllability as a function of CoT length 
 Figure 29 
 Figure 29. CoT controllability as a function of CoT length, across three
datasets in CoT-Control 
 Figure 30 
 Figure 30. CoT controllability as a function of CoT length, across eight
instruction types in CoT control. 
 Table 9: A comparison of CoTs of GPT-5.5, GPT-5.6 Sol, and GPT-6 Astra for the same problem and instruction type with the same reasoning effort. GPT-5.5 spends much of its CoT discussing how—or whether—to obey the control instruction, while reasoning normally and ultimately violating it. GPT-5.6 Sol is terser and eventually abandons prose for a mostly symbolic calculation, apparently attempting to avoid the casing constraint, but never actually satisfies it. GPT-6 Astra follows the instruction immediately, producing a shorter, fully compliant CoT. All three models answer the underlying question correctly. 
 Table 9. A comparison of CoTs of GPT-5.5, GPT-5.6 Sol, and GPT-6 Astra for the same problem and instruction type with the same reasoning effort. GPT-5.5 spends much of its CoT discussing how—or whether—to obey the control instruction, while reasoning normally and ultimately violating it. GPT-5.6 Sol is terser and eventually abandons prose for a mostly symbolic calculation, apparently attempting to avoid the casing constraint, but never actually satisfies it. GPT-6 Astra follows the instruction immediately, producing a shorter, fully compliant CoT. All three models answer