SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/06/authors-push-back-as-publishers-and-agents-seek-share-of-anthropic-settlement/
READ: 2026-10-02

–:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
- Latest 
- Startups 
- Venture 
- Apple 
- Security 
- AI 
- Apps 
- Disrupt 2026 
- Events 
- Podcasts 
- Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
- 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: Benjamin White (opens in a new window) / Flickr (opens in a new window) under a CC BY-SA 2.0 (opens in a new window) license. 
 AI 
 Authors push back as publishers and agents make claims on Anthropic settlement
 Anthony Ha 
 1:47 PM PDT · September 6, 2026 
 Some authors hoping to receive their share of Anthropic’s $1.5 billion copyright settlement said they received surprising emails this week — emails informing them that someone else was making a claim on their payments.
 Anthropic settled a copyright class action suit last year, after a judge ruled that training AI models on copyrighted material is legal under fair use doctrine, but pirating that material was not. The deal received final approval in July, allowing the payments to move forward.
 Under the terms of the settlement, the authors of nearly 500,000 titles will be paid $3,000 for each pirated work. If the book is still in print with a traditional publisher, the money will be split 50-50 between author and publisher. If the book was self-published, or if the publisher reverted the rights by allowing the book to go out of print, then the author should get the entire payment.
 But writers have been posting on social media that publishers seem to be claiming more than their fair share of some payments. For example, mystery and thriller author April Henry asked , “WTF is HarperCollins playing at? They claimed one of my books on the Anthropic Settlement that reverted back at least 17 years ago AND on the same day I got a credit alert saying they had been added as my employer! (which they never were).”
 At the popular blog Writers Beware , Victoria Strauss wrote that she’s been receiving author complaints that fall into two broad categories: one where publishers are seeking payment for works that they no longer have a legitimate claim on (because the rights have reverted), and another where publishers are seeking a full 100% payment when they’re only entitled to 50%.
 In both cases, Strauss said she’s “reluctant to attribute to malice what can be plausibly explained by poor recordkeeping” — and she noted that some publishers have already said this is a mistake that they’ve asked Anthropic to fix.
 Similarly, Authors Guild CEO Mary Rasenberger told The New York Times that she doesn’t see this as “a grab by the publishers” and that she doesn’t believe publishers are “specifically trying to screw any author over.” Instead, she argued that this is the predictable result of bad recordkeeping and a confusing settlement process.
 Strauss also acknowledged that any complaints she’s seen are just “a peek through a small crack in a massive wall.”
 “But the unusually large number of reports I’ve received over the last two days, as well as the fact that authors are reporting the exact same errors over and over, suggest to me that these aren’t the kind of routine glitches you might expect from such a large operation, but something much more wide[s]pread and systemic,” she wrote.
 And publishers aren’t the only ones seeking a cut of the payments. Strauss said she’s gotten complaints that a number of literary agencies are also making claims, which she said is surprising since “agents are not rightsholders in the books that they sell.”
 Author Courtney Milan (the pen name of former law clerk and law professor Heidi Bond) was more blunt in a post on Bluesky , writing, “Apparently some agents are trying to claim percentages on the Anthropic settlement, and I do not REMOTELY think they should do this, what the fuck, stop that shit!”
 Milan and the Authors Guild also shared more details about how authors can dispute their payment allocations. (One tricky issue: When the rights to a specific book reverted. In order for an author to make a 100% claim on a book, the rights reversion needs to have happened before August 10, 2022, which is the “download date” in the settlement.)
 Topics
 AI , Anthropic , copyright infringement , Media & Entertainment 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Anthony Ha 
 Anthony Ha is TechCrunch’s weekend editor. Previously, he worked as a tech reporter at Adweek, a senior editor at VentureBeat, a local government reporter at the Hollister Free Lance, and vice president of content at a VC firm. He lives in New York City.
 You can contact or verify outreach from Anthony by emailing anthony.ha@techcrunch.com .
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
- 
 Google thinks SpaceX’s Starship has to launch 1,800 times before space data centers get off the ground 
- Tim Fernholz 
- 
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
- Lucas Ropek 
- 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
- Dominic-Madori Davis 
- 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
- Lucas Ropek 
- 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
- Tim Fernholz 
- 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
- Sarah Perez 
- 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
- Kirsten Korosec 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
- X 
- LinkedIn 
- Facebook 
- Instagram 
- youTube 
- Mastodon 
- Threads 
- Bluesky 
- TechCrunch 
- Staff 
- Contact Us 
- Advertise 
- Site Map 
- Terms of Service 
- Privacy Policy 
- RSS Terms of Use 
- Code of Conduct 
- OpenAI 
- Hugging Face 
- Flock 
- Startup Battlefield 
- Disrupt 2026 
- Tech Layoffs 
- ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.