Scaling Memcache at Facebook
Rajesh Nishtala, Hans Fugal, Steven Grimm, Marc Kwiatkowski, Herman Lee, Harry C. Li,
Ryan McElroy, Mike Paleczny, Daniel Peek, Paul Saab, David Stafford, Tony Tung,
Venkateshwaran Venkataramani
{rajeshn,hans}@fb.com, {sgrimm, marc}@facebook.com, {herman, hcli, rm, mpal, dpeek, ps, dstaff, ttung, veeve}@fb.com

Facebook Inc.

Abstract: Memcached is a well known, simple, in-

memory caching solution. This paper describes how
Facebook leverages memcached as a building block to
construct and scale a distributed key-value store that
supports the world’s largest social network. Our system
handles billions of requests per second and holds trillions of items to deliver a rich experience for over a billion users around the world.

1

Introduction

Popular and engaging social networking sites present
significant infrastructure challenges. Hundreds of millions of people use these networks every day and impose computational, network, and I/O demands that traditional web architectures struggle to satisfy. A social
network’s infrastructure needs to (1) allow near realtime communication, (2) aggregate content on-the-fly
from multiple sources, (3) be able to access and update
very popular shared content, and (4) scale to process
millions of user requests per second.
We describe how we improved the open source version of memcached [14] and used it as a building block to
construct a distributed key-value store for the largest social network in the world. We discuss our journey scaling from a single cluster of servers to multiple geographically distributed clusters. To the best of our knowledge,
this system is the largest memcached installation in the
world, processing over a billion requests per second and
storing trillions of items.
This paper is the latest in a series of works that have
recognized the flexibility and utility of distributed keyvalue stores [1, 2, 5, 6, 12, 14, 34, 36]. This paper focuses on memcached—an open-source implementation
of an in-memory hash table—as it provides low latency
access to a shared storage pool at low cost. These qualities enable us to build data-intensive features that would
otherwise be impractical. For example, a feature that
issues hundreds of database queries per page request
would likely never leave the prototype stage because it
would be too slow and expensive. In our application,

USENIX Association

however, web pages routinely fetch thousands of keyvalue pairs from memcached servers.
One of our goals is to present the important themes
that emerge at different scales of our deployment. While
qualities like performance, efficiency, fault-tolerance,
and consistency are important at all scales, our experience indicates that at specific sizes some qualities require more effort to achieve than others. For example, maintaining data consistency can be easier at small
scales if replication is minimal compared to larger ones
where replication is often necessary. Additionally, the
importance of finding an optimal communication schedule increases as the number of servers increase and networking becomes the bottleneck.
This paper includes four main contributions: (1)
We describe the evolution of Facebook’s memcachedbased architecture. (2) We identify enhancements to
memcached that improve performance and increase
memory efficiency. (3) We highlight mechanisms that
improve our ability to operate our system at scale. (4)
We characterize the production workloads imposed on
our system.

2

Overview

The following properties greatly influence our design.
First, users consume an order of magnitude more content than they create. This behavior results in a workload
dominated by fetching data and suggests that caching
can have significant advantages. Second, our read operations fetch data from a variety of sources such as
MySQL databases, HDFS installations, and backend
services. This heterogeneity requires a flexible caching
strategy able to store data from disparate sources.
Memcached provides a simple set of operations (set,
get, and delete) that makes it attractive as an elemental component in a large-scale distributed system. The
open-source version we started with provides a singlemachine in-memory hash table. In this paper, we discuss
how we took this basic building block, made it more efficient, and used it to build a distributed key-value store
that can process billions of requests per second. Hence-

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 385

web
server
1. get k

web
server

2. delete k

database

   













1. UPDATE ...

2. SELECT ...
3. set (k,v)

memcache

   

memcache










database

Figure 1: Memcache as a demand-ﬁlled look-aside
cache. The left half illustrates the read path for a web
server on a cache miss. The right half illustrates the
write path.
forth, we use ‘memcached’ to refer to the source code
or a running binary and ‘memcache’ to describe the distributed system.
Query cache: We rely on memcache to lighten the read
load on our databases. In particular, we use memcache
as a demand-ﬁlled look-aside cache as shown in Figure 1. When a web server needs data, it ﬁrst requests
the value from memcache by providing a string key. If
the item addressed by that key is not cached, the web
server retrieves the data from the database or other backend service and populates the cache with the key-value
pair. For write requests, the web server issues SQL statements to the database and then sends a delete request to
memcache that invalidates any stale data. We choose to
delete cached data instead of updating it because deletes
are idempotent. Memcache is not the authoritative source
of the data and is therefore allowed to evict cached data.
While there are several ways to address excessive
read trafﬁc on MySQL databases, we chose to use
memcache. It was the best choice given limited engineering resources and time. Additionally, separating our
caching layer from our persistence layer allows us to adjust each layer independently as our workload changes.
Generic cache: We also leverage memcache as a more
general key-value store. For example, engineers use
memcache to store pre-computed results from sophisticated machine learning algorithms which can then be
used by a variety of other applications. It takes little effort for new services to leverage the existing marcher
infrastructure without the burden of tuning, optimizing,
provisioning, and maintaining a large server ﬂeet.
As is, memcached provides no server-to-server coordination; it is an in-memory hash table running on
a single server. In the remainder of this paper we describe how we built a distributed key-value store based
on memcached capable of operating under Facebook’s
workload. Our system provides a suite of conﬁguration, aggregation, and routing services to organize
memcached instances into a distributed system.

  









  

Figure 2: Overall architecture
We structure our paper to emphasize the themes that
emerge at three different deployment scales. Our readheavy workload and wide fan-out is the primary concern when we have one cluster of servers. As it becomes
necessary to scale to multiple frontend clusters, we address data replication between these clusters. Finally, we
describe mechanisms to provide a consistent user experience as we spread clusters around the world. Operational complexity and fault tolerance is important at
all scales. We present salient data that supports our design decisions and refer the reader to work by Atikoglu
et al. [8] for a more detailed analysis of our workload. At
a high-level, Figure 2 illustrates this ﬁnal architecture in
which we organize co-located clusters into a region and
designate a master region that provides a data stream to
keep non-master regions up-to-date.
While evolving our system we prioritize two major design goals. (1) Any change must impact a userfacing or operational issue. Optimizations that have limited scope are rarely considered. (2) We treat the probability of reading transient stale data as a parameter to
be tuned, similar to responsiveness. We are willing to
expose slightly stale data in exchange for insulating a
backend storage service from excessive load.

3

In a Cluster: Latency and Load

We now consider the challenges of scaling to thousands
of servers within a cluster. At this scale, most of our
efforts focus on reducing either the latency of fetching
cached data or the load imposed due to a cache miss.

3.1

Reducing Latency

Whether a request for data results in a cache hit or miss,
the latency of memcache’s response is a critical factor
in the response time of a user’s request. A single user
web request can often result in hundreds of individual

386 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

1 The 95th percentile of fetches for that page is 1,740 items.
2 The 95th percentile is 95 keys per request.

USENIX Association

1400
600

1000

UDP direct
by mcrouter (TCP)

0

200

microseconds

memcache get requests. For example, loading one of our
popular pages results in an average of 521 distinct items
fetched from memcache.1
We provision hundreds of memcached servers in a
cluster to reduce load on databases and other services.
Items are distributed across the memcached servers
through consistent hashing [22]. Thus web servers have
to routinely communicate with many memcached servers
to satisfy a user request. As a result, all web servers
communicate with every memcached server in a short
period of time. This all-to-all communication pattern
can cause incast congestion [30] or allow a single server
to become the bottleneck for many web servers. Data
replication often alleviates the single-server bottleneck
but leads to signiﬁcant memory inefﬁciencies in the
common case.
We reduce latency mainly by focusing on the
memcache client, which runs on each web server. This
client serves a range of functions, including serialization, compression, request routing, error handling, and
request batching. Clients maintain a map of all available
servers, which is updated through an auxiliary conﬁguration system.
Parallel requests and batching: We structure our webapplication code to minimize the number of network
round trips necessary to respond to page requests. We
construct a directed acyclic graph (DAG) representing
the dependencies between data. A web server uses this
DAG to maximize the number of items that can be
fetched concurrently. On average these batches consist
of 24 keys per request2 .
Client-server communication: Memcached servers do
not communicate with each other. When appropriate,
we embed the complexity of the system into a stateless
client rather than in the memcached servers. This greatly
simpliﬁes memcached and allows us to focus on making
it highly performant for a more limited use case. Keeping the clients stateless enables rapid iteration in the
software and simpliﬁes our deployment process. Client
logic is provided as two components: a library that can
be embedded into applications or as a standalone proxy
named mcrouter. This proxy presents a memcached
server interface and routes the requests/replies to/from
other servers.
Clients use UDP and TCP to communicate with
memcached servers. We rely on UDP for get requests to
reduce latency and overhead. Since UDP is connectionless, each thread in the web server is allowed to directly
communicate with memcached servers directly, bypassing mcrouter, without establishing and maintaining a

Average of Medians

Average of 95th Percentiles

Figure 3: Get latency for UDP, TCP via mcrouter
connection thereby reducing the overhead. The UDP
implementation detects packets that are dropped or received out of order (using sequence numbers) and treats
them as errors on the client side. It does not provide
any mechanism to try to recover from them. In our infrastructure, we ﬁnd this decision to be practical. Under peak load, memcache clients observe that 0.25% of
get requests are discarded. About 80% of these drops
are due to late or dropped packets, while the remainder
are due to out of order delivery. Clients treat get errors as cache misses, but web servers will skip inserting entries into memcached after querying for data to
avoid putting additional load on a possibly overloaded
network or server.
For reliability, clients perform set and delete operations over TCP through an instance of mcrouter running on the same machine as the web server. For operations where we need to conﬁrm a state change (updates
and deletes) TCP alleviates the need to add a retry mechanism to our UDP implementation.
Web servers rely on a high degree of parallelism and
over-subscription to achieve high throughput. The high
memory demands of open TCP connections makes it
prohibitively expensive to have an open connection between every web thread and memcached server without
some form of connection coalescing via mcrouter. Coalescing these connections improves the efﬁciency of
the server by reducing the network, CPU and memory
resources needed by high throughput TCP connections.
Figure 3 shows the average, median, and 95th percentile
latencies of web servers in production getting keys over
UDP and through mcrouter via TCP. In all cases, the
standard deviation from these averages was less than
1%. As the data show, relying on UDP can lead to a
20% reduction in latency to serve requests.
Incast congestion: Memcache clients implement ﬂowcontrol mechanisms to limit incast congestion. When a

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 387

40
30
20

3.2.1

0
100

200

300

Reducing Load

We use memcache to reduce the frequency of fetching data along more expensive paths such as database
queries. Web servers fall back to these paths when the
desired data is not cached. The following subsections
describe three techniques for decreasing load.

10

milliseconds

3.2

95th Percentile
Median

400

500

Window Size

Figure 4: Average time web requests spend waiting to
be scheduled

client requests a large number of keys, the responses
can overwhelm components such as rack and cluster
switches if those responses arrive all at once. Clients
therefore use a sliding window mechanism [11] to control the number of outstanding requests. When the client
receives a response, the next request can be sent. Similar
to TCP’s congestion control, the size of this sliding window grows slowly upon a successful request and shrinks
when a request goes unanswered. The window applies
to all memcache requests independently of destination;
whereas TCP windows apply only to a single stream.
Figure 4 shows the impact of the window size on the
amount of time user requests are in the runnable state
but are waiting to be scheduled inside the web server.
The data was gathered from multiple racks in one frontend cluster. User requests exhibit a Poisson arrival process at each web server. According to Little’s Law [26],
L = λW , the number of requests queued in the server
(L) is directly proportional to the average time a request
takes to process (W ), assuming that the input request
rate is constant (which it was for our experiment). The
time web requests are waiting to be scheduled is a direct indication of the number of web requests in the
system. With lower window sizes, the application will
have to dispatch more groups of memcache requests serially, increasing the duration of the web request. As the
window size gets too large, the number of simultaneous
memcache requests causes incast congestion. The result
will be memcache errors and the application falling back
to the persistent storage for the data, which will result
in slower processing of web requests. There is a balance
between these extremes where unnecessary latency can
be avoided and incast congestion can be minimized.

Leases

We introduce a new mechanism we call leases to address
two problems: stale sets and thundering herds. A stale
set occurs when a web server sets a value in memcache
that does not reﬂect the latest value that should be
cached. This can occur when concurrent updates to
memcache get reordered. A thundering herd happens
when a speciﬁc key undergoes heavy read and write activity. As the write activity repeatedly invalidates the recently set values, many reads default to the more costly
path. Our lease mechanism solves both problems.
Intuitively, a memcached instance gives a lease to a
client to set data back into the cache when that client experiences a cache miss. The lease is a 64-bit token bound
to the speciﬁc key the client originally requested. The
client provides the lease token when setting the value
in the cache. With the lease token, memcached can verify and determine whether the data should be stored and
thus arbitrate concurrent writes. Veriﬁcation can fail if
memcached has invalidated the lease token due to receiving a delete request for that item. Leases prevent
stale sets in a manner similar to how load-link/storeconditional operates [20].
A slight modiﬁcation to leases also mitigates thundering herds. Each memcached server regulates the rate at
which it returns tokens. By default, we conﬁgure these
servers to return a token only once every 10 seconds per
key. Requests for a key’s value within 10 seconds of a
token being issued results in a special notiﬁcation telling
the client to wait a short amount of time. Typically, the
client with the lease will have successfully set the data
within a few milliseconds. Thus, when waiting clients
retry the request, the data is often present in cache.
To illustrate this point we collect data for all cache
misses of a set of keys particularly susceptible to thundering herds for one week. Without leases, all of the
cache misses resulted in a peak database query rate of
17K/s. With leases, the peak database query rate was
1.3K/s. Since we provision our databases based on peak
load, our lease mechanism translates to a signiﬁcant efﬁciency gain.
Stale values: With leases, we can minimize the application’s wait time in certain use cases. We can further
reduce this time by identifying situations in which returning slightly out-of-date data is acceptable. When a
key is deleted, its value is transferred to a data struc-

388 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

Terabytes

80

Low−churn

High−churn

60
40
20
Daily

Weekly

Daily

Weekly

Minimum, mean, and maximum

Figure 5: Daily and weekly working set of a high-churn
family and a low-churn key family
ture that holds recently deleted items, where it lives for
a short time before being ﬂushed. A get request can return a lease token or data that is marked as stale. Applications that can continue to make forward progress with
stale data do not need to wait for the latest value to be
fetched from the databases. Our experience has shown
that since the cached value tends to be a monotonically
increasing snapshot of the database, most applications
can use a stale value without any changes.
3.2.2 Memcache Pools

Using memcache as a general-purpose caching layer requires workloads to share infrastructure despite different access patterns, memory footprints, and quality-ofservice requirements. Different applications’ workloads
can produce negative interference resulting in decreased
hit rates.
To accommodate these differences, we partition a
cluster’s memcached servers into separate pools. We
designate one pool (named wildcard) as the default and
provision separate pools for keys whose residence in
wildcard is problematic. For example, we may provision a small pool for keys that are accessed frequently
but for which a cache miss is inexpensive. We may also
provision a large pool for infrequently accessed keys for
which cache misses are prohibitively expensive.
Figure 5 shows the working set of two different sets
of items, one that is low-churn and another that is highchurn. The working set is approximated by sampling all
operations on one out of every one million items. For
each of these items, we collect the minimum, average,
and maximum item size. These sizes are summed and
multiplied by one million to approximate the working
set. The difference between the daily and weekly working sets indicates the amount of churn. Items with different churn characteristics interact in an unfortunate way:
low-churn keys that are still valuable are evicted before
high-churn keys that are no longer being accessed. Placing these keys in different pools prevents this kind of
negative interference, and allows us to size high-churn
pools appropriate to their cache miss cost. Section 7 provides further analysis.

USENIX Association

3.2.3

Replication Within Pools

Within some pools, we use replication to improve the latency and efﬁciency of memcached servers. We choose
to replicate a category of keys within a pool when (1)
the application routinely fetches many keys simultaneously, (2) the entire data set ﬁts in one or two memcached
servers and (3) the request rate is much higher than what
a single server can manage.
We favor replication in this instance over further dividing the key space. Consider a memcached server
holding 100 items and capable of responding to 500k
requests per second. Each request asks for 100 keys.
The difference in memcached overhead for retrieving
100 keys per request instead of 1 key is small. To scale
the system to process 1M requests/sec, suppose that we
add a second server and split the key space equally between the two. Clients now need to split each request for
100 keys into two parallel requests for ∼50 keys. Consequently, both servers still have to process 1M requests
per second. However, if we replicate all 100 keys to multiple servers, a client’s request for 100 keys can be sent
to any replica. This reduces the load per server to 500k
requests per second. Each client chooses replicas based
on its own IP address. This approach requires delivering
invalidations to all replicas to maintain consistency.

3.3

Handling Failures

The inability to fetch data from memcache results in excessive load to backend services that could cause further cascading failures. There are two scales at which
we must address failures: (1) a small number of hosts
are inaccessible due to a network or server failure or (2)
a widespread outage that affects a signiﬁcant percentage of the servers within the cluster. If an entire cluster has to be taken ofﬂine, we divert user web requests
to other clusters which effectively removes all the load
from memcache within that cluster.
For small outages we rely on an automated remediation system [3]. These actions are not instant and can
take up to a few minutes. This duration is long enough to
cause the aforementioned cascading failures and thus we
introduce a mechanism to further insulate backend services from failures. We dedicate a small set of machines,
named Gutter, to take over the responsibilities of a few
failed servers. Gutter accounts for approximately 1% of
the memcached servers in a cluster.
When a memcached client receives no response to its
get request, the client assumes the server has failed and
issues the request again to a special Gutter pool. If this
second request misses, the client will insert the appropriate key-value pair into the Gutter machine after querying
the database. Entries in Gutter expire quickly to obviate

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 389

Gutter invalidations. Gutter limits the load on backend
services at the cost of slightly stale data.
Note that this design differs from an approach in
which a client rehashes keys among the remaining
memcached servers. Such an approach risks cascading
failures due to non-uniform key access frequency. For
example, a single key can account for 20% of a server’s
requests. The server that becomes responsible for this
hot key might also become overloaded. By shunting load
to idle servers we limit that risk.
Ordinarily, each failed request results in a hit on the
backing store, potentially overloading it. By using Gutter to store these results, a substantial fraction of these
failures are converted into hits in the gutter pool thereby
reducing load on the backing store. In practice, this system reduces the rate of client-visible failures by 99%
and converts 10%–25% of failures into hits each day. If
a memcached server fails entirely, hit rates in the gutter
pool generally exceed 35% in under 4 minutes and often
approach 50%. Thus when a few memcached servers are
unavailable due to failure or minor network incidents,
Gutter protects the backing store from a surge of trafﬁc.

4

In a Region: Replication

It is tempting to buy more web and memcached servers
to scale a cluster as demand increases. However, naı̈vely
scaling the system does not eliminate all problems.
Highly requested items will only become more popular
as more web servers are added to cope with increased
user trafﬁc. Incast congestion also worsens as the number of memcached servers increases. We therefore split
our web and memcached servers into multiple frontend
clusters. These clusters, along with a storage cluster that
contain the databases, deﬁne a region. This region architecture also allows for smaller failure domains and
a tractable network conﬁguration. We trade replication
of data for more independent failure domains, tractable
network conﬁguration, and a reduction of incast congestion.
This section analyzes the impact of multiple frontend
clusters that share the same storage cluster. Speciﬁcally
we address the consequences of allowing data replication across these clusters and the potential memory efﬁciencies of disallowing this replication.

4.1

Regional Invalidations

While the storage cluster in a region holds the authoritative copy of data, user demand may replicate that data
into frontend clusters. The storage cluster is responsible for invalidating cached data to keep frontend clusters consistent with the authoritative versions. As an optimization, a web server that modiﬁes data also sends
invalidations to its own cluster to provide read-after-

Memcache
Mcrouter
Storage Server
MySQL

Commit Log

Update
Operations

McSqueal

Storage

Figure 6: Invalidation pipeline showing keys that need
to be deleted via the daemon (mcsqueal).
write semantics for a single user request and reduce the
amount of time stale data is present in its local cache.
SQL statements that modify authoritative state are
amended to include memcache keys that need to be
invalidated once the transaction commits [7]. We deploy invalidation daemons (named mcsqueal) on every
database. Each daemon inspects the SQL statements that
its database commits, extracts any deletes, and broadcasts these deletes to the memcache deployment in every
frontend cluster in that region. Figure 6 illustrates this
approach. We recognize that most invalidations do not
delete data; indeed, only 4% of all deletes issued result
in the actual invalidation of cached data.
Reducing packet rates: While mcsqueal could contact memcached servers directly, the resulting rate of
packets sent from a backend cluster to frontend clusters would be unacceptably high. This packet rate problem is a consequence of having many databases and
many memcached servers communicating across a cluster boundary. Invalidation daemons batch deletes into
fewer packets and send them to a set of dedicated servers
running mcrouter instances in each frontend cluster.
These mcrouters then unpack individual deletes from
each batch and route those invalidations to the right
memcached server co-located within the frontend cluster. The batching results in an 18× improvement in the
median number of deletes per packet.
Invalidation via web servers: It is simpler for web
servers to broadcast invalidations to all frontend clusters. This approach unfortunately suffers from two problems. First, it incurs more packet overhead as web
servers are less effective at batching invalidations than
mcsqueal pipeline. Second, it provides little recourse
when a systemic invalidation problem arises such as
misrouting of deletes due to a conﬁguration error. In the
past, this would often require a rolling restart of the entire memcache infrastructure, a slow and disruptive pro-

390 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

Median number of users
Gets per second
Median value size

A (Cluster)
30
3.26 M
10.7 kB

B (Region)
1
458 K
4.34 kB

Table 1: Deciding factors for cluster or regional replication of two item families
cess we want to avoid. In contrast, embedding invalidations in SQL statements, which databases commit and
store in reliable logs, allows mcsqueal to simply replay
invalidations that may have been lost or misrouted.

4.2

Regional Pools

Each cluster independently caches data depending on
the mix of the user requests that are sent to it. If
users’ requests are randomly routed to all available frontend clusters then the cached data will be roughly the
same across all the frontend clusters. This allows us to
take a cluster ofﬂine for maintenance without suffering from reduced hit rates. Over-replicating the data can
be memory inefﬁcient, especially for large, rarely accessed items. We can reduce the number of replicas by
having multiple frontend clusters share the same set of
memcached servers. We call this a regional pool.
Crossing cluster boundaries incurs more latency. In
addition, our networks have 40% less average available
bandwidth over cluster boundaries than within a single
cluster. Replication trades more memcached servers for
less inter-cluster bandwidth, lower latency, and better
fault tolerance. For some data, it is more cost efﬁcient
to forgo the advantages of replicating data and have a
single copy per region. One of the main challenges of
scaling memcache within a region is deciding whether
a key needs to be replicated across all frontend clusters
or have a single replica per region. Gutter is also used
when servers in regional pools fail.
Table 1 summarizes two kinds of items in our application that have large values. We have moved one kind
(B) to a regional pool while leaving the other (A) untouched. Notice that clients access items falling into category B an order of magnitude less than those in category A. Category B’s low access rate makes it a prime
candidate for a regional pool since it does not adversely
impact inter-cluster bandwidth. Category B would also
occupy 25% of each cluster’s wildcard pool so regionalization provides signiﬁcant storage efﬁciencies. Items
in category A, however, are twice as large and accessed
much more frequently, disqualifying themselves from
regional consideration. The decision to migrate data into
regional pools is currently based on a set of manual
heuristics based on access rates, data set size, and number of unique users accessing particular items.

USENIX Association

4.3

Cold Cluster Warmup

When we bring a new cluster online, an existing one
fails, or perform scheduled maintenance the caches will
have very poor hit rates diminishing the ability to insulate backend services. A system called Cold Cluster Warmup mitigates this by allowing clients in the
“cold cluster” (i.e. the frontend cluster that has an empty
cache) to retrieve data from the “warm cluster” (i.e. a
cluster that has caches with normal hit rates) rather than
the persistent storage. This takes advantage of the aforementioned data replication that happens across frontend
clusters. With this system cold clusters can be brought
back to full capacity in a few hours instead of a few days.
Care must be taken to avoid inconsistencies due to
race conditions. For example, if a client in the cold cluster does a database update, and a subsequent request
from another client retrieves the stale value from the
warm cluster before the warm cluster has received the
invalidation, that item will be indeﬁnitely inconsistent
in the cold cluster. Memcached deletes support nonzero
hold-off times that reject add operations for the speciﬁed hold-off time. By default, all deletes to the cold
cluster are issued with a two second hold-off. When a
miss is detected in the cold cluster, the client re-requests
the key from the warm cluster and adds it into the cold
cluster. The failure of the add indicates that newer data
is available on the database and thus the client will refetch the value from the databases. While there is still a
theoretical possibility that deletes get delayed more than
two seconds, this is not true for the vast majority of the
cases. The operational beneﬁts of cold cluster warmup
far outweigh the cost of rare cache consistency issues.
We turn it off once the cold cluster’s hit rate stabilizes
and the beneﬁts diminish.

5

Across Regions: Consistency

There are several advantages to a broader geographic
placement of data centers. First, putting web servers
closer to end users can signiﬁcantly reduce latency.
Second, geographic diversity can mitigate the effects
of events such as natural disasters or massive power
failures. And third, new locations can provide cheaper
power and other economic incentives. We obtain these
advantages by deploying to multiple regions. Each region consists of a storage cluster and several frontend
clusters. We designate one region to hold the master
databases and the other regions to contain read-only
replicas; we rely on MySQL’s replication mechanism
to keep replica databases up-to-date with their masters. In this design, web servers experience low latency
when accessing either the local memcached servers or
the local database replicas. When scaling across mul-

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 391

tiple regions, maintaining consistency between data in
memcache and the persistent storage becomes the primary technical challenge. These challenges stem from
a single problem: replica databases may lag behind the
master database.
Our system represents just one point in the wide
spectrum of consistency and performance trade-offs.
The consistency model, like the rest of the system, has
evolved over the years to suit the scale of the site. It
mixes what can be practically built without sacriﬁcing
our high performance requirements. The large volume
of data that the system manages implies that any minor
changes that increase network or storage requirements
have non-trivial costs associated with them. Most ideas
that provide stricter semantics rarely leave the design
phase because they become prohibitively expensive. Unlike many systems that are tailored to an existing use
case, memcache and Facebook were developed together.
This allowed the applications and systems engineers to
work together to ﬁnd a model that is sufﬁciently easy
for the application engineers to understand yet performant and simple enough for it to work reliably at scale.
We provide best-effort eventual consistency but place an
emphasis on performance and availability. Thus the system works very well for us in practice and we think we
have found an acceptable trade-off.
Writes from a master region: Our earlier decision requiring the storage cluster to invalidate data via daemons
has important consequences in a multi-region architecture. In particular, it avoids a race condition in which
an invalidation arrives before the data has been replicated from the master region. Consider a web server in
the master region that has ﬁnished modifying a database
and seeks to invalidate now stale data. Sending invalidations within the master region is safe. However, having
the web server invalidate data in a replica region may be
premature as the changes may not have been propagated
to the replica databases yet. Subsequent queries for the
data from the replica region will race with the replication stream thereby increasing the probability of setting
stale data into memcache. Historically, we implemented
mcsqueal after scaling to multiple regions.
Writes from a non-master region: Now consider a
user who updates his data from a non-master region
when replication lag is excessively large. The user’s next
request could result in confusion if his recent change is
missing. A cache reﬁll from a replica’s database should
only be allowed after the replication stream has caught
up. Without this, subsequent requests could result in the
replica’s stale data being fetched and cached.
We employ a remote marker mechanism to minimize
the probability of reading stale data. The presence of the

marker indicates that data in the local replica database
are potentially stale and the query should be redirected
to the master region. When a web server wishes to update data that affects a key k, that server (1) sets a remote marker rk in the region, (2) performs the write to
the master embedding k and rk to be invalidated in the
SQL statement, and (3) deletes k in the local cluster. On
a subsequent request for k, a web server will be unable
to ﬁnd the cached data, check whether rk exists, and direct its query to the master or local region depending on
the presence of rk . In this situation, we explicitly trade
additional latency when there is a cache miss, for a decreased probability of reading stale data.
We implement remote markers by using a regional
pool. Note that this mechanism may reveal stale information during concurrent modiﬁcations to the same
key as one operation may delete a remote marker that
should remain present for another in-ﬂight operation. It
is worth highlighting that our usage of memcache for remote markers departs in a subtle way from caching results. As a cache, deleting or evicting keys is always a
safe action; it may induce more load on databases, but
does not impair consistency. In contrast, the presence of
a remote marker helps distinguish whether a non-master
database holds stale data or not. In practice, we ﬁnd both
the eviction of remote markers and situations of concurrent modiﬁcation to be rare.
Operational considerations: Inter-region communication is expensive since data has to traverse large geographical distances (e.g. across the continental United
States). By sharing the same channel of communication
for the delete stream as the database replication we gain
network efﬁciency on lower bandwidth connections.
The aforementioned system for managing deletes in
Section 4.1 is also deployed with the replica databases to
broadcast the deletes to memcached servers in the replica
regions. Databases and mcrouters buffer deletes when
downstream components become unresponsive. A failure or delay in any of the components results in an increased probability of reading stale data. The buffered
deletes are replayed once these downstream components
are available again. The alternatives involve taking a
cluster ofﬂine or over-invalidating data in frontend clusters when a problem is detected. These approaches result
in more disruptions than beneﬁts given our workload.

6

Single Server Improvements

The all-to-all communication pattern implies that a single server can become a bottleneck for a cluster. This
section describes performance optimizations and memory efﬁciency gains in memcached which allow better

392 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

USENIX Association

0

hits
misses

Facebook

Facebook−μlocks

1.4.10

Figure 7: Multiget hit and miss performance comparison
by memcached version

TCP
UDP

0

We began with a single-threaded memcached which used
a ﬁxed-size hash table. The ﬁrst major optimizations
were to: (1) allow automatic expansion of the hash table to avoid look-up times drifting to O(n), (2) make the
server multi-threaded using a global lock to protect multiple data structures, and (3) giving each thread its own
UDP port to reduce contention when sending replies and
later spreading interrupt processing overhead. The ﬁrst
two optimizations were contributed back to the open
source community. The remainder of this section explores further optimizations that are not yet available in
the open source version.
Our experimental hosts have an Intel Xeon
CPU (X5650) running at 2.67GHz (12 cores and
12 hyperthreads), an Intel 82574L gigabit ethernet
controller and 12GB of memory. Production servers
have additional memory. Further details have been
previously published [4]. The performance test setup
consists of ﬁfteen clients generating memcache trafﬁc
to a single memcached server with 24 threads. The
clients and server are co-located on the same rack and
connected through gigabit ethernet. These tests measure
the latency of memcached responses over two minutes
of sustained load.
Get Performance: We ﬁrst investigate the effect of replacing our original multi-threaded single-lock implementation with ﬁne-grained locking. We measured hits
by pre-populating the cache with 32-byte values before
issuing memcached requests of 10 keys each. Figure 7
shows the maximum request rates that can be sustained
with sub-millisecond average response times for different versions of memcached. The ﬁrst set of bars is our
memcached before ﬁne-grained locking, the second set
is our current memcached, and the ﬁnal set is the open
source version 1.4.10 which independently implements
a coarser version of our locking strategy.
Employing ﬁne-grained locking triples the peak get
rate for hits from 600k to 1.8M items per second. Performance for misses also increased from 2.7M to 4.5M
items per second. Hits are more expensive because the
return value has to be constructed and transmitted, while
misses require a single static response (END) for the entire multiget indicating that all keys missed.
We also investigated the performance effects of using UDP instead of TCP. Figure 8 shows the peak request rate we can sustain with average latencies of less
than one millisecond for single gets and multigets of 10
keys. We found that our UDP implementation outper-

Max sustained
items / second
2M
4M

Performance Optimizations

Max sustained
items / second
1M
2M

6.1

6M

scaling within clusters. Improving single server cache
performance is an active research area [9, 10, 28, 25].

Get

10−key multiget

Figure 8: Get hit performance comparison for single
gets and 10-key multigets over TCP and UDP
forms our TCP implementation by 13% for single gets
and 8% for 10-key multigets.
Because multigets pack more data into each request
than single gets, they use fewer packets to do the same
work. Figure 8 shows an approximately four-fold improvement for 10-key multigets over single gets.

6.2

Adaptive Slab Allocator

Memcached employs a slab allocator to manage memory.
The allocator organizes memory into slab classes, each
of which contains pre-allocated, uniformly sized chunks
of memory. Memcached stores items in the smallest possible slab class that can ﬁt the item’s metadata, key, and
value. Slab classes start at 64 bytes and exponentially increase in size by a factor of 1.07 up to 1 MB, aligned on
4-byte boundaries3 . Each slab class maintains a free-list
of available chunks and requests more memory in 1MB
slabs when its free-list is empty. Once a memcached
server can no longer allocate free memory, storage for
new items is done by evicting the least recently used
(LRU) item within that slab class. When workloads
change, the original memory allocated to each slab class
may no longer be enough resulting in poor hit rates.
3 This scaling factor ensures that we have both 64 and 128 byte
items which are more amenable to hardware cache lines.

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 393

6.3

The Transient Item Cache

While memcached supports expiration times, entries
may live in memory well after they have expired.
Memcached lazily evicts such entries by checking expiration times when serving a get request for that item
or when they reach the end of the LRU. Although efﬁcient for the common case, this scheme allows shortlived keys that see a single burst of activity to waste
memory until they reach the end of the LRU.
We therefore introduce a hybrid scheme that relies on
lazy eviction for most keys and proactively evicts shortlived keys when they expire. We place short-lived items
into a circular buffer of linked lists (indexed by seconds until expiration) – called the Transient Item Cache
– based on the expiration time of the item. Every second, all of the items in the bucket at the head of the
buffer are evicted and the head advances by one. When
we added a short expiration time to a heavily used set of
keys whose items have short useful lifespans; the proportion of memcache pool used by this key family was
reduced from 6% to 0.3% without affecting the hit rate.

6.4

Software Upgrades

Frequent software changes may be needed for upgrades,
bug ﬁxes, temporary diagnostics, or performance testing. A memcached server can reach 90% of its peak hit
rate within a few hours. Consequently, it can take us over
12 hours to upgrade a set of memcached servers as the resulting database load needs to be managed carefully. We
modiﬁed memcached to store its cached values and main
data structures in System V shared memory regions so
that the data can remain live across a software upgrade
and thereby minimize disruption.

100
80
60
40
20

All requests
A popular data intensive page

0

percentile of requests

We implemented an adaptive allocator that periodically re-balances slab assignments to match the current workload. It identiﬁes slab classes as needing more
memory if they are currently evicting items and if the
next item to be evicted was used at least 20% more recently than the average of the least recently used items in
other slab classes. If such a class is found, then the slab
holding the least recently used item is freed and transferred to the needy class. Note that the open-source community has independently implemented a similar allocator that balances the eviction rates across slab classes
while our algorithm focuses on balancing the age of the
oldest items among classes. Balancing age provides a
better approximation to a single global Least Recently
Used (LRU) eviction policy for the entire server rather
than adjusting eviction rates which can be heavily inﬂuenced by access patterns.

20

100

200

300

400

500

600

distinct memcached servers

Figure 9: Cumulative distribution of the number of distinct memcached servers accessed

7 Memcache Workload
We now characterize the memcache workload using data
from servers that are running in production.

7.1

Measurements at the Web Server

We record all memcache operations for a small percentage of user requests and discuss the fan-out, response
size, and latency characteristics of our workload.
Fanout: Figure 9 shows the distribution of distinct
memcached servers a web server may need to contact
when responding to a page request. As shown, 56%
of all page requests contact fewer than 20 memcached
servers. By volume, user requests tend to ask for small
amounts of cached data. There is, however, a long tail to
this distribution. The ﬁgure also depicts the distribution
for one of our more popular pages that better exhibits
the all-to-all communication pattern. Most requests of
this type will access over 100 distinct servers; accessing
several hundred memcached servers is not rare.
Response size: Figure 10 shows the response sizes from
memcache requests. The difference between the median
(135 bytes) and the mean (954 bytes) implies that there
is a very large variation in the sizes of the cached items.
In addition there appear to be three distinct peaks at approximately 200 bytes and 600 bytes. Larger items tend
to store lists of data while smaller items tend to store
single pieces of content.
Latency: We measure the round-trip latency to request
data from memcache, which includes the cost of routing the request and receiving the reply, network transfer
time, and the cost of deserialization and decompression.
Over 7 days the median request latency is 333 microseconds while the 75th and 95th percentiles (p75 and p95)
are 475μs and 1.135ms respectively. Our median endto-end latency from an idle web server is 178μs while
the p75 and p95 are 219μs and 374μs, respectively. The

394 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

0

200

400

Figure 10: Cumulative distribution of value sizes
fetched
wide variance between the p95 latencies arises from
handling large responses and waiting for the runnable
thread to be scheduled as discussed in Section 3.1.

Pool Statistics

We now discuss key metrics of four memcache pools.
The pools are wildcard (the default pool), app (a pool
devoted for a speciﬁc application), a replicated pool for
frequently accessed data, and a regional pool for rarely
accessed information. In each pool, we collect average
statistics every 4 minutes and report in Table 2 the highest average for one month collection period. This data
approximates the peak load seen by those pools. The table shows the widely different get, set, and delete rates
for different pools. Table 3 shows the distribution of response sizes for each pool. Again, the different characteristics motivate our desire to segregate these workloads from one another.
As discussed in Section 3.2.3, we replicate data
within a pool and take advantage of batching to handle
the high request rates. Observe that the replicated pool
has the highest get rate (about 2.7× that of the next highest one) and the highest ratio of bytes to packets despite
having the smallest item sizes. This data is consistent
with our design in which we leverage replication and
batching to achieve better performance. In the app pool,
a higher churn of data results in a naturally higher miss
rate. This pool tends to have content that is accessed for
a few hours and then fades away in popularity in favor
of newer content. Data in the regional pool tends to be
large and infrequently accessed as shown by the request
rates and the value size distribution.

7.3

Invalidation Latency

We recognize that the timeliness of invalidations is a
critical factor in determining the probability of exposing stale data. To monitor this health, we sample one out

USENIX Association

10s

1m

10m

1h

master region

1d

1s

10s

1m

10m

1h

replica region

1d

seconds of delay

600

Figure 11: Latency of the Delete Pipeline

Bytes

7.2

1e−06 1e−05 1e−04 1e−03

fraction of deletes that failed

100
80
60
40
20

percentile of requests

0

1s

of a million deletes and record the time the delete was issued. We subsequently query the contents of memcache
across all frontend clusters at regular intervals for the
sampled keys and log an error if an item remains cached
despite a delete that should have invalidated it.
In Figure 11, we use this monitoring mechanism to report our invalidation latencies across a 30 day span. We
break this data into two different components: (1) the
delete originated from a web server in the master region
and was destined to a memcached server in the master region and (2) the delete originated from a replica region
and was destined to another replica region. As the data
show, when the source and destination of the delete are
co-located with the master our success rates are much
higher and achieve four 9s of reliability within 1 second
and ﬁve 9s after one hour. However when the deletes
originate and head to locations outside of the master region our reliability drops to three 9s within a second and
four 9s within 10 minutes. In our experience, we ﬁnd
that if an invalidation is missing after only a few seconds the most common reason is that the ﬁrst attempt
failed and subsequent retrials will resolve the problem.

8

Related Work

Several other large websites have recognized the utility of key-value stores. DeCandia et al. [12] present
a highly available key-value store that is used by a
variety of application services at Amazon.com. While
their system is optimized for a write heavy workload,
ours targets a workload dominated by reads. Similarly,
LinkedIn uses Voldemort [5], a system inspired by Dynamo. Other major deployments of key-value caching
solutions include Redis [6] at Github, Digg, and Blizzard, and memcached at Twitter [33] and Zynga. Lakshman et al. [1] developed Cassandra, a schema-based
distributed key-value store. We preferred to deploy and
scale memcached due to its simpler design.
Our work in scaling memcache builds on extensive
work in distributed data structures. Gribble et al. [19]

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 395

pool

miss rate

get
s

set
s

delete
s

packets
s

wildcard
app
replicated
regional

1.76%
7.85%
0.053%
6.35%

262k
96.5k
710k
9.1k

8.26k
11.9k
1.75k
0.79k

21.2k
6.28k
3.22k
35.9k

236k
83.0k
44.5k
47.2k

outbound
bandwidth (MB/s)
57.4
31.0
30.1
10.8

Table 2: Trafﬁc per server on selected memcache pools averaged over 7 days
pool
wildcard
app
replicated
regional

mean
1.11 K
881
66
31.8 K

std dev
8.28 K
7.70 K
2
75.4 K

p5
77
103
62
231

p25
102
247
68
824

p50
169
269
68
5.31 K

p75
363
337
68
24.0 K

p95
3.65 K
1.68K
68
158 K

p99
18.3 K
10.4 K
68
381 K

Table 3: Distribution of item sizes for various pools in bytes
present an early version of a key-value storage system
useful for Internet scale services. Ousterhout et al. [29]
also present the case for a large scale in-memory keyvalue storage system. Unlike both of these solutions,
memcache does not guarantee persistence. We rely on
other systems to handle persistent data storage.
Ports et al. [31] provide a library to manage the
cached results of queries to a transactional database.
Our needs require a more ﬂexible caching strategy. Our
use of leases [18] and stale reads [23] leverages prior
research on cache consistency and read operations in
high-performance systems. Work by Ghandeharizadeh
and Yap [15] also presents an algorithm that addresses
the stale set problem based on time-stamps rather than
explicit version numbers.
While software routers are easier to customize and
program, they are often less performant than their hardware counterparts. Dobrescu et al. [13] address these
issues by taking advantage of multiple cores, multiple
memory controllers, multi-queue networking interfaces,
and batch processing on general purpose servers. Applying these techniques to mcrouter’s implementation
remains future work. Twitter has also independently developed a memcache proxy similar to mcrouter [32].
In Coda [35], Satyanarayanan et al. demonstrate how
datasets that diverge due to disconnected operation can
be brought back into sync. Glendenning et al. [17] leverage Paxos [24] and quorums [16] to build Scatter, a distributed hash table with linearizable semantics [21] resilient to churn. Lloyd et al. [27] examine causal consistency in COPS, a wide-area storage system.
TAO [37] is another Facebook system that relies heavily on caching to serve large numbers of low-latency
queries. TAO differs from memcache in two fundamental
ways. (1) TAO implements a graph data model in which
nodes are identiﬁed by ﬁxed-length persistent identiﬁers
(64-bit integers). (2) TAO encodes a speciﬁc mapping of

its graph model to persistent storage and takes responsibility for persistence. Many components, such as our
client libraries and mcrouter, are used by both systems.

9

Conclusion

In this paper, we show how to scale a memcached-based
architecture to meet the growing demand of Facebook.
Many of the trade-offs discussed are not fundamental,
but are rooted in the realities of balancing engineering
resources while evolving a live system under continuous product development. While building, maintaining,
and evolving our system we have learned the following
lessons. (1) Separating cache and persistent storage systems allows us to independently scale them. (2) Features
that improve monitoring, debugging and operational efﬁciency are as important as performance. (3) Managing
stateful components is operationally more complex than
stateless ones. As a result keeping logic in a stateless
client helps iterate on features and minimize disruption.
(4) The system must support gradual rollout and rollback of new features even if it leads to temporary heterogeneity of feature sets. (5) Simplicity is vital.

Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Philippe Ajoux, Nathan Bronson, Mark Drayton, David Fetterman, Alex Gartrell, Andrii Grynenko, Robert Johnson, Sanjeev Kumar, Anton
Likhtarov, Mark Marchukov, Scott Marlette, Ben Maurer, David Meisner, Konrad Michels, Andrew Pope, Jeff
Rothschild, Jason Sobel, and Yee Jiun Song for their
contributions. We would also like to thank the anonymous reviewers, our shepherd Michael Piatek, Tor M.
Aamodt, Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Tayler Hetherington for their valuable feedback on earlier drafts of
the paper. Finally we would like to thank our fellow engineers at Facebook for their suggestions, bug-reports,
and support which makes memcache what it is today.

396 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

References
[1] Apache Cassandra. http://cassandra.apache.org/.
[2] Couchbase. http://www.couchbase.com/.
[3] Making Facebook Self-Healing. https://www.facebook.
com/note.php?note_id=10150275248698920.
[4] Open Compute Project. http://www.opencompute.org.
[5] Project Voldemort. http://project-voldemort.com/.
[6] Redis. http://redis.io/.
[7] Scaling Out. https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_
id=23844338919.
[8] ATIKOGLU , B., X U , Y., F RACHTENBERG , E., J IANG , S., AND
PALECZNY, M. Workload analysis of a large-scale key-value
store. ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review 40,
1 (June 2012), 53–64.
[9] B EREZECKI , M., F RACHTENBERG , E., PALECZNY, M., AND
S TEELE , K. Power and performance evaluation of memcached
on the tilepro64 architecture. Sustainable Computing: Informatics and Systems 2, 2 (June 2012), 81 – 90.
[10] B OYD -W ICKIZER , S., C LEMENTS , A. T., M AO , Y.,
P ESTEREV, A., K AASHOEK , M. F., M ORRIS , R., AND
Z ELDOVICH , N. An analysis of linux scalability to many cores.
In Proceedings of the 9th USENIX Symposium on Operating
Systems Design & Implementation (2010), pp. 1–8.
[11] C ERF, V. G., AND K AHN , R. E. A protocol for packet network
intercommunication. ACM SIGCOMM Compututer Communication Review 35, 2 (Apr. 2005), 71–82.
[12] D E C ANDIA , G., H ASTORUN , D., JAMPANI , M., K AKULAP ATI , G., L AKSHMAN , A., P ILCHIN , A., S IVASUBRAMANIAN ,
S., VOSSHALL , P., AND VOGELS , W. Dynamo: amazon’s
highly available key-value store. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 41, 6 (Dec. 2007), 205–220.
[13] FALL , K., I ANNACCONE , G., M ANESH , M., R ATNASAMY, S.,
A RGYRAKI , K., D OBRESCU , M., AND E GI , N. Routebricks:
enabling general purpose network infrastructure. ACM SIGOPS
Operating Systems Review 45, 1 (Feb. 2011), 112–125.
[14] F ITZPATRICK , B. Distributed caching with memcached. Linux
Journal 2004, 124 (Aug. 2004), 5.
[15] G HANDEHARIZADEH , S., AND YAP, J. Gumball: a race condition prevention technique for cache augmented sql database
management systems. In Proceedings of the 2nd ACM SIGMOD
Workshop on Databases and Social Networks (2012), pp. 1–6.
[16] G IFFORD , D. K. Weighted voting for replicated data. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (1979), pp. 150–162.
[17] G LENDENNING , L., B ESCHASTNIKH , I., K RISHNAMURTHY,
A., AND A NDERSON , T. Scalable consistency in Scatter. In
Proceedings of the 23rd ACM Symposium on Operating Systems
Principles (2011), pp. 15–28.
[18] G RAY, C., AND C HERITON , D. Leases: An efﬁcient faulttolerant mechanism for distributed ﬁle cache consistency. ACM
SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 23, 5 (Nov. 1989), 202–210.
[19] G RIBBLE , S. D., B REWER , E. A., H ELLERSTEIN , J. M., AND
C ULLER , D. Scalable, distributed data structures for internet
service construction. In Proceedings of the 4th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design & Implementation (2000),
pp. 319–332.
[20] H EINRICH , J. MIPS R4000 Microprocessor User’s Manual.
MIPS technologies, 1994.

USENIX Association

[21] H ERLIHY, M. P., AND W ING , J. M. Linearizability: a correctness condition for concurrent objects. ACM Transactions on
Programming Languages and Systems 12, 3 (July 1990), 463–
492.
[22] K ARGER , D., L EHMAN , E., L EIGHTON , T., PANIGRAHY, R.,
L EVINE , M., AND L EWIN , D. Consistent Hashing and Random
trees: Distributed Caching Protocols for Relieving Hot Spots on
the World Wide Web. In Proceedings of the 29th annual ACM
Symposium on Theory of Computing (1997), pp. 654–663.
[23] K EETON , K., M ORREY, III, C. B., S OULES , C. A., AND
V EITCH , A. Lazybase: freshness vs. performance in information management. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 44,
1 (Dec. 2010), 15–19.
[24] L AMPORT, L. The part-time parliament. ACM Transactions on
Computer Systems 16, 2 (May 1998), 133–169.
[25] L IM , H., FAN , B., A NDERSEN , D. G., AND K AMINSKY, M.
Silt: a memory-efﬁcient, high-performance key-value store. In
Proceedings of the 23rd ACM Symposium on Operating Systems
Principles (2011), pp. 1–13.
[26] L ITTLE , J., AND G RAVES , S. Little’s law. Building Intuition
(2008), 81–100.
[27] L LOYD , W., F REEDMAN , M., K AMINSKY, M., AND A NDER SEN , D. Don’t settle for eventual: scalable causal consistency for
wide-area storage with COPS. In Proceedings of the 23rd ACM
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (2011), pp. 401–
416.
[28] M ETREVELI , Z., Z ELDOVICH , N., AND K AASHOEK , M.
Cphash: A cache-partitioned hash table. In Proceedings of the
17th ACM SIGPLAN symposium on Principles and Practice of
Parallel Programming (2012), pp. 319–320.
[29] O USTERHOUT, J., AGRAWAL , P., E RICKSON , D.,
KOZYRAKIS , C., L EVERICH , J., M AZI ÈRES , D., M I TRA , S., NARAYANAN , A., O NGARO , D., PARULKAR , G.,
ROSENBLUM , M., RUMBLE , S. M., S TRATMANN , E., AND
S TUTSMAN , R. The case for ramcloud. Communications of the
ACM 54, 7 (July 2011), 121–130.
[30] P HANISHAYEE , A., K REVAT, E., VASUDEVAN , V., A NDER SEN , D. G., G ANGER , G. R., G IBSON , G. A., AND S E SHAN , S. Measurement and analysis of tcp throughput collapse in cluster-based storage systems. In Proceedings of the 6th
USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (2008),
pp. 12:1–12:14.
[31] P ORTS , D. R. K., C LEMENTS , A. T., Z HANG , I., M ADDEN ,
S., AND L ISKOV, B. Transactional consistency and automatic
management in an application data cache. In Proceedings of
the 9th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design &
Implementation (2010), pp. 1–15.
[32] R AJASHEKHAR , M. Twemproxy: A fast, light-weight proxy for
memcached. https://dev.twitter.com/blog/twemproxy.
[33] R AJASHEKHAR , M., AND Y UE , Y. Caching with twemcache.
http://engineering.twitter.com/2012/07/
caching-with-twemcache.html.
[34] R ATNASAMY, S., F RANCIS , P., H ANDLEY, M., K ARP, R.,
AND S HENKER , S. A scalable content-addressable network.
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review 31, 4 (Oct.
2001), 161–172.
[35] S ATYANARAYANAN , M., K ISTLER , J., K UMAR , P., O KASAKI ,
M., S IEGEL , E., AND S TEERE , D. Coda: A highly available ﬁle
system for a distributed workstation environment. IEEE Transactions on Computers 39, 4 (Apr. 1990), 447–459.

10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13) 397

[36] S TOICA , I., M ORRIS , R., K ARGER , D., K AASHOEK , M., AND
BALAKRISHNAN , H. Chord: A scalable peer-to-peer lookup
service for internet applications. ACM SIGCOMM Computer
Communication Review 31, 4 (Oct. 2001), 149–160.
[37] V ENKATARAMANI , V., A MSDEN , Z., B RONSON , N., C ABR ERA III, G., C HAKKA , P., D IMOV, P., D ING , H., F ERRIS , J.,
G IARDULLO , A., H OON , J., K ULKARNI , S., L AWRENCE , N.,
M ARCHUKOV, M., P ETROV, D., AND P UZAR , L. Tao: how
facebook serves the social graph. In Proceedings of the ACM
SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data
(2012), pp. 791–792.

398 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’13)

USENIX Association

