Abstracts of later and related papers, fetched from arxiv.org/abs on 2026-10-02 (used by Then and now and Why it matters).

== [2007.01282] Leveraging Passage Retrieval with Generative Models for Open Domain Question Answering (https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.01282), submitted 2 Jul 2020
Generative models for open domain question answering have proven to be competitive, without resorting to external knowledge. While promising, this approach requires to use models with billions of parameters, which are expensive to train and query. In this paper, we investigate how much these models can benefit from retrieving text passages, potentially containing evidence. We obtain state-of-the-art results on the Natural Questions and TriviaQA open benchmarks. Interestingly, we observe that the performance of this method significantly improves when increasing the number of retrieved passages. This is evidence that generative models are good at aggregating and combining evidence from multiple passages.

== [2112.04426] Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens (https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.04426), submitted 8 Dec 2021
We enhance auto-regressive language models by conditioning on document chunks retrieved from a large corpus, based on local similarity with preceding tokens. With a $2$ trillion token database, our Retrieval-Enhanced Transformer (RETRO) obtains comparable performance to GPT-3 and Jurassic-1 on the Pile, despite using 25$\times$ fewer parameters. After fine-tuning, RETRO performance translates to downstream knowledge-intensive tasks such as question answering. RETRO combines a frozen Bert retriever, a differentiable encoder and a chunked cross-attention mechanism to predict tokens based on an order of magnitude more data than what is typically consumed during training. We typically train RETRO from scratch, yet can also rapidly RETROfit pre-trained transformers with retrieval and still achieve good performance. Our work opens up new avenues for improving language models through explicit memory at unprecedented scale.

== [2208.03299] Atlas: Few-shot Learning with Retrieval Augmented Language Models (https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.03299), submitted 5 Aug 2022
Large language models have shown impressive few-shot results on a wide range of tasks. However, when knowledge is key for such results, as is the case for tasks such as question answering and fact checking, massive parameter counts to store knowledge seem to be needed. Retrieval augmented models are known to excel at knowledge intensive tasks without the need for as many parameters, but it is unclear whether they work in few-shot settings. In this work we present Atlas, a carefully designed and pre-trained retrieval augmented language model able to learn knowledge intensive tasks with very few training examples. We perform evaluations on a wide range of tasks, including MMLU, KILT and NaturalQuestions, and study the impact of the content of the document index, showing that it can easily be updated. Notably, Atlas reaches over 42% accuracy on Natural Questions using only 64 examples, outperforming a 540B parameters model by 3% despite having 50x fewer parameters.

== [2302.00083] In-Context Retrieval-Augmented Language Models (https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.00083), submitted 31 Jan 2023
Retrieval-Augmented Language Modeling (RALM) methods, which condition a language model (LM) on relevant documents from a grounding corpus during generation, were shown to significantly improve language modeling performance. In addition, they can mitigate the problem of factually inaccurate text generation and provide natural source attribution mechanism. Existing RALM approaches focus on modifying the LM architecture in order to facilitate the incorporation of external information, significantly complicating deployment. This paper considers a simple alternative, which we dub In-Context RALM: leaving the LM architecture unchanged and prepending grounding documents to the input, without any further training of the LM. We show that In-Context RALM that builds on off-the-shelf general purpose retrievers provides surprisingly large LM gains across model sizes and diverse corpora. We also demonstrate that the document retrieval and ranking mechanism can be specialized to the RALM setting to further boost performance. We conclude that In-Context RALM has considerable potential to increase the prevalence of LM grounding, particularly in settings where a pretrained LM must be used without modification or even via API access.

== [2301.12652] REPLUG: Retrieval-Augmented Black-Box Language Models (https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12652), submitted 30 Jan 2023
We introduce REPLUG, a retrieval-augmented language modeling framework that treats the language model (LM) as a black box and augments it with a tuneable retrieval model. Unlike prior retrieval-augmented LMs that train language models with special cross attention mechanisms to encode the retrieved text, REPLUG simply prepends retrieved documents to the input for the frozen black-box LM. This simple design can be easily applied to any existing retrieval and language models. Furthermore, we show that the LM can be used to supervise the retrieval model, which can then find documents that help the LM make better predictions. Our experiments demonstrate that REPLUG with the tuned retriever significantly improves the performance of GPT-3 (175B) on language modeling by 6.3%, as well as the performance of Codex on five-shot MMLU by 5.1%.

== [2310.11511] Self-RAG: Learning to Retrieve, Generate, and Critique through Self-Reflection (https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.11511), submitted 17 Oct 2023]
Despite their remarkable capabilities, large language models (LLMs) often produce responses containing factual inaccuracies due to their sole reliance on the parametric knowledge they encapsulate. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), an ad hoc approach that augments LMs with retrieval of relevant knowledge, decreases such issues. However, indiscriminately retrieving and incorporating a fixed number of retrieved passages, regardless of whether retrieval is necessary, or passages are relevant, diminishes LM versatility or can lead to unhelpful response generation. We introduce a new framework called Self-Reflective Retrieval-Augmented Generation (Self-RAG) that enhances an LM's quality and factuality through retrieval and self-reflection. Our framework trains a single arbitrary LM that adaptively retrieves passages on-demand, and generates and reflects on retrieved passages and its own generations using special tokens, called reflection tokens. Generating reflection tokens makes the LM controllable during the inference phase, enabling it to tailor its behavior to diverse task requirements. Experiments show that Self-RAG (7B and 13B parameters) significantly outperforms state-of-the-art LLMs and retrieval-augmented models on a diverse set of tasks. Specifically, Self-RAG outperforms ChatGPT and retrieval-augmented Llama2-chat on Open-domain QA, reasoning and fact verification tasks, and it shows significant gains in improving factuality and citation accuracy for long-form generations relative to these models.

== [2404.16130] From Local to Global: A Graph RAG Approach to Query-Focused Summarization (https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16130), submitted 24 Apr 2024
The use of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to retrieve relevant information from an external knowledge source enables large language models (LLMs) to answer questions over private and/or previously unseen document collections. However, RAG fails on global questions directed at an entire text corpus, such as "What are the main themes in the dataset?", since this is inherently a query-focused summarization (QFS) task, rather than an explicit retrieval task. Prior QFS methods, meanwhile, do not scale to the quantities of text indexed by typical RAG systems. To combine the strengths of these contrasting methods, we propose GraphRAG, a graph-based approach to question answering over private text corpora that scales with both the generality of user questions and the quantity of source text. Our approach uses an LLM to build a graph index in two stages: first, to derive an entity knowledge graph from the source documents, then to pregenerate community summaries for all groups of closely related entities. Given a question, each community summary is used to generate a partial response, before all partial responses are again summarized in a final response to the user. For a class of global sensemaking questions over datasets in the 1 million token range, we show that GraphRAG leads to substantial improvements over a conventional RAG baseline for both the comprehensiveness and diversity of generated answers.

== [2109.05052] Entity-Based Knowledge Conflicts in Question Answering (https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.05052), submitted 10 Sep 2021
Knowledge-dependent tasks typically use two sources of knowledge: parametric, learned at training time, and contextual, given as a passage at inference time. To understand how models use these sources together, we formalize the problem of knowledge conflicts, where the contextual information contradicts the learned information. Analyzing the behaviour of popular models, we measure their over-reliance on memorized information (the cause of hallucinations), and uncover important factors that exacerbate this behaviour. Lastly, we propose a simple method to mitigate over-reliance on parametric knowledge, which minimizes hallucination, and improves out-of-distribution generalization by 4%-7%. Our findings demonstrate the importance for practitioners to evaluate model tendency to hallucinate rather than read, and show that our mitigation strategy encourages generalization to evolving information (i.e., time-dependent queries). To encourage these practices, we have released our framework for generating knowledge conflicts.

== [2004.04906] Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering (https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.04906), submitted 10 Apr 2020
Open-domain question answering relies on efficient passage retrieval to select candidate contexts, where traditional sparse vector space models, such as TF-IDF or BM25, are the de facto method. In this work, we show that retrieval can be practically implemented using dense representations alone, where embeddings are learned from a small number of questions and passages by a simple dual-encoder framework. When evaluated on a wide range of open-domain QA datasets, our dense retriever outperforms a strong Lucene-BM25 system largely by 9%-19% absolute in terms of top-20 passage retrieval accuracy, and helps our end-to-end QA system establish new state-of-the-art on multiple open-domain QA benchmarks.

== [2002.08909] REALM: Retrieval-Augmented Language Model Pre-Training (https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08909), submitted 10 Feb 2020]
Language model pre-training has been shown to capture a surprising amount of world knowledge, crucial for NLP tasks such as question answering. However, this knowledge is stored implicitly in the parameters of a neural network, requiring ever-larger networks to cover more facts. To capture knowledge in a more modular and interpretable way, we augment language model pre-training with a latent knowledge retriever, which allows the model to retrieve and attend over documents from a large corpus such as Wikipedia, used during pre-training, fine-tuning and inference. For the first time, we show how to pre-train such a knowledge retriever in an unsupervised manner, using masked language modeling as the learning signal and backpropagating through a retrieval step that considers millions of documents. We demonstrate the effectiveness of Retrieval-Augmented Language Model pre-training (REALM) by fine-tuning on the challenging task of Open-domain Question Answering (Open-QA). We compare against state-of-the-art models for both explicit and implicit knowledge storage on three popular Open-QA benchmarks, and find that we outperform all previous methods by a significant margin (4-16% absolute accuracy), while also providing qualitative benefits such as interpretability and modularity.

== [2002.08910] How Much Knowledge Can You Pack Into the Parameters of a Language Model? (https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08910), submitted 10 Feb 2020
It has recently been observed that neural language models trained on unstructured text can implicitly store and retrieve knowledge using natural language queries. In this short paper, we measure the practical utility of this approach by fine-tuning pre-trained models to answer questions without access to any external context or knowledge. We show that this approach scales with model size and performs competitively with open-domain systems that explicitly retrieve answers from an external knowledge source when answering questions. To facilitate reproducibility and future work, we release our code and trained models at this https URL.

== [2312.10997] Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large Language Models: A Survey (https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10997), submitted 18 Dec 2023
Large Language Models (LLMs) showcase impressive capabilities but encounter challenges like hallucination, outdated knowledge, and non-transparent, untraceable reasoning processes. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a promising solution by incorporating knowledge from external databases. This enhances the accuracy and credibility of the generation, particularly for knowledge-intensive tasks, and allows for continuous knowledge updates and integration of domain-specific information. RAG synergistically merges LLMs' intrinsic knowledge with the vast, dynamic repositories of external databases. This comprehensive review paper offers a detailed examination of the progression of RAG paradigms, encompassing the Naive RAG, the Advanced RAG, and the Modular RAG. It meticulously scrutinizes the tripartite foundation of RAG frameworks, which includes the retrieval, the generation and the augmentation techniques. The paper highlights the state-of-the-art technologies embedded in each of these critical components, providing a profound understanding of the advancements in RAG systems. Furthermore, this paper introduces up-to-date evaluation framework and benchmark. At the end, this article delineates the challenges currently faced and points out prospective avenues for research and development.

== Atlas full paper (https://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.03299v3), extracted with pdftotext -layout, lines 309-315, 369, 672-677
the index become stale relative to the updated retriever. This means that we need to recompute the
embeddings for the full collection of documents regularly during training to keep the index fresh, which
can be computationally expensive for large indices. This is particularly true at fine-tuning time, where the
number of training examples could be small relative to the number of documents in the index. Training
the retriever could thus add an important computational overhead compared to standard language model
finetuning. In this section, we analyse strategies that might make this process more efficient, alleviating the
need to re-compute the embeddings of all the documents too often.
Query-side fine-tuning. Finally, the last strategy is to decouple the encoding of the queries and documents.
In this section, we apply the findings from the ablations of the previous sections to train a family of
Atlas models, ranging from 770M to 11B parameters. More specifically, we use the Perplexity Distillation
objective function, along with the masked language modelling pretext task. We pre-train these models using a
mix of Wikipedia and Common Crawl data, for both the training data and content of the index. We retrieve
20 documents, and update the index every 2,500 steps and perform re-ranking of the top-100 documents. We
pre-train models for 10,000 iterations using AdamW with a batch size of 128.
== Atlas, lines 89-90 and 155-156, 166-167 (retriever Contriever, T5 with Fusion-in-Decoder)
using a dual-encoder architecture, based on the Contriever (Izacard et al., 2022). The retrieved documents
are processed, along with the current context, by a sequence-to-sequence model using the Fusion-in-Decoder
Retriever. Our retriever module is based on the Contriever (Izacard et al., 2022), an information retrieval
technique based on continuous dense embeddings. The Contriever uses a dual-encoder architecture, where the
Language model. For the language model, we rely on the T5 sequence-to-sequence architecture (Raffel
et al., 2019). We rely on the Fusion-in-Decoder modification of sequence-to-sequence models, and process
