SOURCE: https://www.cnbc.com/2026/09/25/pentagon-anthropic-ai-risk-appeals-court.html

 U.S. appeals court upholds Pentagon designation of Anthropic as supply chain risk 
 Skip Navigation 
 Markets Pre-Markets 
 U.S. Markets 
 Europe Markets 
 China Markets 
 Asia Markets 
 World Markets 
 Currencies 
 Prediction Markets 
 Cryptocurrency 
 Futures & Commodities 
 Bonds 
 Funds & ETFs 
 Business Economy 
 Finance 
 Health & Science 
 Media 
 Real Estate 
 Energy 
 Climate 
 Transportation 
 Investigations 
 Industrials 
 Retail 
 Wealth 
 Sports 
 Life 
 Small Business 
 Investing Personal Finance 
 Fintech 
 Financial Advisors 
 Options Action 
 ETF Street 
 Buffett Archive 
 Earnings 
 Trader Talk 
 Tech Cybersecurity 
 AI 
 Enterprise 
 Internet 
 Media 
 Mobile 
 Social Media 
 CNBC Disruptor 50 
 Tech Guide 
 Politics & Policy White House 
 Policy 
 Defense 
 Congress 
 Expanding Opportunity 
 Europe Politics 
 China Politics 
 Asia Politics 
 World Politics 
 Video Latest Video 
 Full Episodes 
 Livestream 
 Top Video 
 Live Audio 
 Europe TV 
 Asia TV 
 CNBC Podcasts 
 CEO Interviews 
 Digital Originals 
 Watchlist 
 Investing Club Trust Portfolio 
 Analysis 
 Trade Alerts 
 Meeting Videos 
 Homestretch 
 Jim's Columns 
 Education 
 Subscribe 
 PRO Pro News 
 Josh Brown 
 Mike Santoli 
 Calls of the Day 
 My Portfolio 
 Livestream 
 Full Episodes 
 Stock Screener 
 Market Forecast 
 Options Investing 
 Chart Investing 
 Subscribe 
 Livestream 
 Menu 
 Make It 
 select 
 USA 
 INTL 
 Livestream 
 Search quotes, news & videos 
 Livestream 
 Watchlist 
 SIGN IN 
 Create free account 
 Markets 
 Business 
 Investing 
 Tech 
 Politics & Policy 
 Video 
 Watchlist 
 Investing Club 
 PRO 
 Livestream 
 Menu 
 Tech U.S. appeals court upholds Pentagon designation of Anthropic as supply chain risk
 Published Fri, Sep 25 2026 11:25 AM EDT Updated Fri, Sep 25 2026 1:19 PM EDT 
 Ashley Capoot @/in/ashley-capoot/ 
 WATCH LIVE 
 Key Points
 A federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., upheld the Pentagon's blacklisting of Anthropic. 
 The DOD labeled Anthropic a supply chain risk in March, and Anthropic sued the Trump administration in an effort to undo that action.
 The designation prevents the U.S. military from using Anthropic's models and blocks defense contractors from using them in their work with the agency.
 "We remain confident in our position and are considering all options, including further review," an Anthropic spokesperson said in a statement. 
 watch now 
 VIDEO 2:38 02:38 
 U.S. appeals court upholds Pentagon designation of Anthropic as supply chain risk
 Squawk on the Street 
 A federal appeals court panel in Washington, D.C., on Friday upheld the Pentagon's blacklisting of Anthropic , dealing a blow to the artificial intelligence company in its months-long battle with the Trump administration.
 The 2-1 decision rejected Anthropic's argument that the Department of Defense's ban on its Claude models was arbitrary, unauthorized and unconstitutional.
 "The Department had ample support for its conclusion that the continued integration of Claude into the Department's information systems, by the Department or its contractors, presented a statutorily covered national-security risk," Judge Gregory Katsas wrote in the majority opinion for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, which Judge Neomi Rao joined. Katsas and Rao were appointed by President Donald Trump .
 Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson, who was appointed by former President George H.W. Bush, dissented.
 In March, the DOD labeled Anthropic a supply chain risk , meaning the company purportedly threatened U.S. national security, after negotiations about how the military could use its Claude AI models spiraled out of control. The designation prevents the U.S. military from using Anthropic's models and blocks defense contractors from using them in their work with the agency.
 Anthropic's relationship with the Trump administration has been fraught ever since, and Trump has repeatedly slammed company's CEO Dario Amodei on social media. Amodei recently drew Trump's ire by calling for an industry wide slowdown , and he was not invited to the glitzy state dinner the White House hosted for Chinese President Xi Jinping on Thursday.
 "The Trump Administration has stopped AI "people" from doing bad, or potentially bad, "things," like Dario (Anthropic!), who is now pretending to be a "perfect little angel" - and we will continue to do so!," Trump wrote in a post on Truth Social on Monday. 
 Read more CNBC tech news
 Google unveils latest AI model, but Wall Street wants a breakout personal agent 
 Former LinkedIn chief Roslansky to leave Microsoft, following other exec departures 
 SpaceX launches Google AI chips into orbit in push toward space-based data centers 
 Trump's AI lunch included every major tech company. Except Apple 
 Anthropic sued the Trump administration in U.S. District Court in San Francisco and in the D.C. Circuit Appeals Court in March, seeking to reverse its blacklisting. The DOD relied on two distinct designations to justify its supply chain risk action, which meant they had to be litigated in two separate courts.
 A San Francisco federal judge ruled last month that one designation was illegal. The ruling Friday by the D.C. appeals court upheld the second designation. 
 "We respectfully disagree with the court's decision," an Anthropic spokesperson told CNBC in a statement. "Another federal court has already held the government's parallel designation unlawful. We remain confident in our position and are considering all options, including further review." 
 The appellate panel said it would delay the decision from taking immediate effect to give Anthropic time to petition the same panel for a rehearing or to seek an en banc rehearing of the case, by all of the judges on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Anthropic could also ask the Supreme Court to take the case.
 An aerial view of the Pentagon, which houses the US Department of Defense headquarters, in Arlington, Virginia, on May 31, 2026. 
 Daniel Slim | Afp | Getty Images
 Before the clash between the two sides spilled into the public's view earlier this year, Anthropic served as an early partner across many U.S. agencies, including the DOD. Anthropic signed a  $200 million  contract with the Pentagon in July of 2025, but as the company began negotiating Claude's deployment on the DOD's  GenAI.mil  AI platform that September, talks collapsed.
 The DOD wanted Anthropic to grant the military unfettered access to its models across all lawful purposes, while Anthropic wanted assurance that its technology would not be used for fully autonomous weapons or domestic mass surveillance. They were unable to come to an agreement, and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth accused Anthropic of attempting to "to seize veto power over the operational decisions of the United States military."
 Katsas said Friday that Hegseth raised the "deeply sobering" idea that "overly constrained" AI models could shut down unexpectedly, as well as the potential that Claude might be "subject to manipulation." While Anthropic refuted those claims, Katsas said decision-making authority ultimately rests with Trump and Hegseth.
 "In our Republic, it is the President and the Secretary of War who must determine how best to balance the competing risks," Katsas wrote. "In doing so here, the Secretary did not transgress any limits on his authority under the Supply Chain Security Act or the Constitution."
 WATCH: CEOs of OpenAI, Anthropic and Hugging Face to brief UN Security Council 
 watch now 
 VIDEO 2:16 02:16 
 CEOs of OpenAI, Anthropic and Hugging Face to brief UN Security Council
 TechCheck 
 Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news. 
 Subscribe to CNBC PRO 
 Subscribe to Investing Club 
 Licensing & Reprints 
 CNBC Councils 
 Join the CNBC Panel 
 Digital Products 
 News Releases 
 Closed Captioning 
 Corrections 
 About CNBC 
 Internships 
 Site Map 
 Careers 
 Help 
 Contact 
 News Tips
 Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
 Get In Touch 
 CNBC Newsletters
 Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
 Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
 Advertise With Us
 Please Contact Us 
 Ad Choices 
 Privacy Policy 
 Your Privacy Choices 
 CA Notice 
 Terms of Service 
 © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
 Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
 Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
 and Analysis.
 Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 
 