SOURCE: https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/11/y-combinators-garry-tan-wants-u-s-open-weight-ai-labs-to-distill-frontier-models-too/

 
 Y Combinator's Garry Tan wants US open-weight AI labs to 'distill' frontier models, too | TechCrunch 
 –:–:–:– 
 Last day to demo your breakthrough to 10,000+ tech leaders is on Oct 2 . Book Exhibit Table Now. 
 Disrupt ticket savings of up to $200 + 50% off a second ends Sept 25, 11:59 p.m. PT. REGISTER HERE. 
 Close 
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo 
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo 
 Latest 
 Startups 
 Venture 
 Apple 
 Security 
 AI 
 Apps 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Events 
 Podcasts 
 Newsletters 
 Search Submit 
 Site Search Toggle 
 Mega Menu Toggle 
 Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
 More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits: Hutton Supancic / SXSW Conference and Festivals / Getty Images 
 Venture 
 Y Combinator’s Garry Tan wants US open-weight AI labs to ‘distill’ frontier models, too
 Julie Bort 
 1:59 PM PDT · September 11, 2026 
 When it comes to Chinese AI labs using distillation techniques to extract knowledge from frontier model makers, Y Combinator CEO Garry Tan is hoping regulators stay out of it. In fact, he thinks U.S. AI labs should perhaps play the same game.
 “I would do nothing,” he told CNBC in an interview earlier this week . “We could argue that there should be an American distillation regime.”
 He elaborated to TechCrunch that this means he wants smaller, American open-weight AI labs to use the same kind of training techniques on American frontier AI labs, giving the U.S. a more robust set of open-weight options that aren’t Chinese.
 Distillation is when a model maker extensively prompts another model in order to learn how it works and reasons. It is commonly, and legitimately, used by AI labs to help train new models.
 Anthropic this week released its second report alleging that Chinese labs are engaged in “illicit distillation attacks,” hiding their identities to distill without permission and relying on fraud and stolen credentials to do so. Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei had previously publicly called on U.S. regulators to crack down on distillation.
 It’s notable that the commander of Silicon Valley’s prestigious and prolific startup accelerator doesn’t agree.
 To be clear, Tan isn’t advocating for American AI labs to use stolen credentials to distill. He wants them to be free to come in the front door. In fact, his argument is twofold. He feels it’s an overreach for AI labs to dictate what their customers can do with the information their models share with them.
 He also notes that the proprietary AI labs didn’t ask permission when they vacuumed up as much human knowledge as they could to train their models. They famously ingested plenty of copyrighted material without the permission of those intellectual property holders .
 “Controlling what users and customers do with API calls to closed weight models feels constraining, and there’s a role government can play here to normalize the fact that access to intelligence that was trained on broad public access data should itself also be more a form of a public good than something locked away behind restrictive terms of service,” he told TechCrunch when asked why American labs should be free to distill, too.
 Tan, who is himself such an avid AI user that he once described himself as having cyber psychosis , wants to see a balance between open-weight AI labs and frontier labs.
 “They are at the frontier and driving it forward. We want that to be fundable, and be a great business model ongoing,” he told CNBC. “You want open weight models to give people freedom and access.”
 To him, the true AI doomer scenario is for all the immense power of frontier AI to wind up in the hands of a single powerful, proprietary provider. “The nightmare scenario, the doomer scenario for AI is that there’s just one company,” he said. “It has the best access to capital. It has the best AI researchers. It runs away with it and suddenly there’s one company that’s monolithic. And that would be bad.”
 Topics
 AI , garry tan , TC , Venture , Y Combinator 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence. 
 Julie Bort 
 Venture Editor 
 Julie Bort is the Startups/Venture Desk editor for TechCrunch. 
You can contact or verify outreach from Julie by emailing julie.bort@techcrunch.com or via @Julie188 on X. 
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
 Get 50% off a second pass 
 The Disrupt experience is meant to be shared. Get your pass and bring a colleague, partner, or peer at 50% off. Cover more ground by making connections, building momentum, and discovering what’s next in the startup ecosystem.
 BOOK NOW 
 Most Popular
 Google releases Gemini 4 Argon, called its most powerful model yet 
 Lucas Ropek 
 The Pentagon taps Elon Musk and Palmer Luckey to help decide what the military should do next 
 Dominic-Madori Davis 
 OpenAI launches Dots, its bubbly agentic avatar 
 Lucas Ropek 
 AMD will acquire Fei-Fei Li’s World Labs for $8.2B 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Viral AI agent Instinct raises $1B Series C at a $10B valuation 
 Sarah Perez 
 Crusoe abandons $1.25B plan to use Boom turbines at AI data centers 
 Kirsten Korosec 
 Astra and Opus just passed Turing’s other test 
 Tim Fernholz 
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Facebook 
 Instagram 
 youTube 
 Mastodon 
 Threads 
 Bluesky 
 TechCrunch 
 Staff 
 Contact Us 
 Advertise 
 Site Map 
 Terms of Service 
 Privacy Policy 
 RSS Terms of Use 
 Code of Conduct 
 OpenAI 
 Hugging Face 
 Flock 
 Startup Battlefield 
 Disrupt 2026 
 Tech Layoffs 
 ChatGPT 
 © 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
